--- Page 1 ---
Synthetic Biophilia
Generation of a Phyllotactic Dome
Alexander Einoder - s3866647 - 2022

--- Page 2 ---
Index
Abstract 3
Introduction 4
Design Goal 6
Buildings Brain and Behaviour 8
Biophilia and Neuroscience 12
Research to Design 15
Aesthetics of Nature 16
Fractals 17
Natural Patterns: Local Symmetry 18
Phyllotaxis 20
Biophilic Design Precedents 22
Design Methodology 24
Initial Experiments 26
Creation of a Phyllotactic Dome Part 1 28
Creation of a Phyllotactic Dome Part 1 36
Lattice Combinations 42
Joints 50
Negative Space 52
Leaves 54
Algorithm Flexibility and Use 56
Blender Geometry Nodes and Python 58
Outcomes 68
Reflection 78
References 80
Appendices 84
2

--- Page 3 ---
Abstract
Neuroscientific and behavioural research has solidified
the importance of the connection between the built
environment and the health and wellbeing of those within.
With a vast majority of time spent indoors for those living
in developed countries, now more than ever, it is vital to
understand how to maximise an individual’s psychological
and physiological well-being through architectural design.
Following the ideology of biophilic design, insights from
environmental neuroscience, and the mathematics of
botany, a domed structure has been developed that
exhibits the geometric patterns of plant growth. The aim
of this exploration enabled the illumination of a potential
methodology in which the underlying mathematics of
natural forms can be applied to modern architecture and
design.
In addition, analysis of the literature and experimentation
of form underpins the development of valuable tools for
designing biophilic spaces aligned to the numerous insights
from environmental neuroscience and surrounding fields.
Potential challenges and compromises with the practical
implementation of the theory were identified, culminating
in novel and transferable design solutions.
Nature, geometry, design: connecting concepts for better health
3

--- Page 4 ---
Introduction
According to the branch of 2021). Structures with forms consistency of complexity,
evolutionary psychology similar to that of plants, and what are their shared
- the biophilia hypothesis, wallpapers and pictures with characteristics that benefit
we are drawn instinctively natural scenes or elements and our brains and bodies? By
to living things such as the audio recordings of natural answering these questions
sight of plants and the sound sounds appear to all have and discovering methods of
of birds (Myers 1996). The significant benefit, being shown recreating the core components
area of neuroaesthetics has to reduce blood pressure of natural structures, we
demonstrated many benefits of (Howell et al. 2011), decrease can move towards building
experiencing natural structures requirement for analgesia synthetic environments that
and environments. Additionally, (Totaforti 2018), and increase authentically replicate the
attention restoration theory mental acuity (Totaforti 2018). natural world.
suggests that nature captures
These positive health benefits To determine methods of
our attention even without
of nature have inspired an creating structures that
us having to focus directly
exploration and investigation of mimic the psychological and
on it. This in turn seems to
the application of natural forms physiological benefits of
recharge the mind and alleviate
in architecture. the natural environment, a
stress - similar to meditation
collation of key insights will
(Alvarsson, Wiens & Nilsson What is it about the shape and
be derived from literature
2010). Many experiments structure of plants and natural
focusing on neuroaesthetics,
have shown that this environments that provoke a
environmental neuroscience
unconscious interaction with restorative effect? What are the
and biophilia. Additionally, the
our environment is incredibly core components and attributes
application of botany-related
important to our overall of a natural scene? How is
mathematics will inform the
wellbeing and mental health, the lighting composed? How
development of a prototype
and has led to the development does the sound reverberate?
and will provide insights into
of the field of environmental What patterns are recurrent in
recreating valuable nature
neuroscience (Westlund 2015). nature?
inspired structures.
The benefits of nature seem to To understand the restorative
extend beyond the presence effects of specific natural forms,
of nature itself. More and it is important to first analyse
more studies are showing what forms and patterns are
that references to nature prevalent in nature and what
have benefit to the health and makes them distinctive. How do
wellbeing of those within a plants grow into their myriad
space (Yao, Zhang & Gong shapes? What creates their
4

--- Page 5 ---
Figure 1: Image of the sun through tree canopy. Author’s own 2022.
5

--- Page 6 ---
Design Goal
Nature’s organised complexity is the consequence of a series of self-referential
algorithms specific to their need. There are however significant trends in these
patterns that appear to be noticed by the human subconscious. This infers a
potential utilisation of the underlying trends to create new synthetic forms that
mimic some of the neuroaesthetic benefits of nature.
How then might we build structures fully utilising the geometry found in nature
to improve mental and physical wellbeing?
By analysing several key patterns and algorithms at the core of nature’s intrinsic
geometry, and repurposing them for built structures, I hope to provide insight
into how the biomimicry of mathematical relations can be utilised to inform
design practices that improve wellbeing.
6

--- Page 7 ---
Why develop a tool?
Finding ways to combine the innovation and development in both
environmental neuroscience and design will help to progress research in
both areas moving forward. New insights and evidence-based practices can
be more quickly and effectively applied and their impacts spread to maximise
benefit. In turn, the interactions between the design implementations and
the broader community can then be studied and evaluated which will further
progress interdisciplinary research initiatives. Clearer and more effective
implementation of the research insights by designers may also garner more
publicity and support and thus more funding, further propelling the field.
Personally, as a motivator for this project, I find that great benefit could come
from the development of tools that can help apply the insights of scientific
research to the field of design. This reduces the cognitive burden on individual
parties and may increase the implementation of new and novel discoveries.
7

--- Page 8 ---
Buildings, Brain, and Behavior
How does the built environment affect wellbeing?
In the modern era, people spend most of
their lives inside buildings. The design of Firmitas
these buildings can have a large impact
(Strength)
on the mood, behaviour, and health of the
inhabitants (International Living Future
Institute 2018). This may be due to many
factors such as safety and function. It is
becoming more apparent however, that
architectural and design aesthetics play an
important role in this psychological and
Architectural
physiological effect (Gullone 2002).
Design
Over the past decade, researchers have
begun to explore the interconnectedness
of the built structure and the neurology of
those within. They have provided much- Utilitas Venustas
needed insight into how architecture (Functionality) (Aesthetics)
engages multiple sensory networks and
how this can lead to motor and emotional
responses (Berman, Stier & Akcelik 2019).
Even if a particular building fulfills its
functional requirements it may however
Vitruviam Triad
impede the functioning of people who
work or live in that space (Gritzka et al. Figure 2: The Vitruvian Triad. Author’s Own 2022
2020). This illuminates the hypocrisy
of many workspaces, designed to be
utilitarian and space-efficient in the hope of
increasing the productivity of its workers, one of the three core dimensions of architectural design
but consequentially reducing their mental of at least equal value to its structural stability and
and physical performance, negating any functionality (see above) (Coburn 2018). Other ancient
potential benefit (Zaino & Abbas 2020). cultures throughout history have also understood this,
with Chinese feng shui and Indian vaastru shastra
The idea that a structure’s aesthetics are of
offering alternatives to creating cohesion and harmony
value was not previously unheard of. Two
within synthetic environments (Mak & Thomas Ng,
thousand years ago the Roman architect
2005; Patra, 2009).
Vitruvius historically crowned beauty as
Environment Senses Processing Physiology
Figure 3: The interconnections between the environment and neurophysiology.
Author’s Own 2022
8

--- Page 9 ---
EMOTIONAL STATE
ENVIRONMENT
EXPERIENCE CONSCIOUS ACTION COGNITIVE FUNCTION
GENETICS
PHYSIOLOGY
The world around us, both physical and social, is inextricably connected to our brains and behaviour. The study of environmental
neuroscience highlights the need to be aware of the interactions between the environment, psychology, neurobiology and behaviour.
Figure 4: Interaction between internal and external elements as described by
environmental Neuroscience. Author’s Own 2022.
The state of our mind is the Mental wellbeing has risen of objects and features to
state of our being. When to the forefront of public the subtleties of shape and
our mental wellbeing is awareness and there is no form, the composition of our
diminished, our physical and shortage of challenges to surroundings change the way
long-term health quickly overcome in the modern we think and feel (Gritzka et al.
follows. These affronts to our workplace (Gritzka et al. 2020; 2020).
mental health and wellbeing Connellan et al. 2013).
Many different key attributes
can be obvious and conscious
The environment that have been shown to have
or subtle and subconscious,
surrounds a person a direct effect on certain
as can the factors that lead to
shapes their emotional aspects of mental wellbeing.
the changes (Cooper, Boyko
and physical state in many Particularly that of stress and
& Codinhoto 2009; Yerbury &
ways. From the emotional cognitive load (Cooper, Boyko
Lukey 2021).
significance and stimulation & Codinhoto 2009).
9

--- Page 10 ---
Stress Reduction Theory
Environmental Recovery From
Neuroscience Stress
Attention Restoration Theory
Figure 5: SRT and ART as subsets of Environmental Neuroscience. Author’s Own
Research has demonstrated has spurned the development them in a refugial space that
the interplay between the of two theories of stress provides “soft fascination”
built environment and mediation – Attention (Pazhouhanfar & Mustafa
mental restoration (Gritzka Restoration Theory (ART) and Kamal 2014).
et al. 2020). By incorporating Stress Reduction Theory (SRT)
Stress Reduction Theory
elements such as trees, water (Scopelliti, Carrus & Bonaiuto
focuses on the lower
and natural landscapes, 2019). Both theories help to
stimulation of natural
synthetic environments explain how natural and built
environments in relation
were indicated to improve environments can both be
to the synthetic. This lower
psychophysiological recovery detrimental and beneficial to
stimulation is due to the
from experimental and the well-being of an individual,
fact that human cognition
naturalistic stressor exposure especially when exposed to
developed to process the
(Alvarsson, Wiens & Nilsson external stressors.
natural and thus requires less
2010). In addition, views of
Attention Restoration effort to do so. The reduced
nature, landscape paintings
Theory suggests that natural effort results in less strain
and indoor plants were
environments can reduce and thus increased ability to
also connected to enhanced
mental fatigue and increase recover from previous stressors
comfort, mental acuity, and
concentration by providing (Pazhouhanfar & Mustafa
positive affect. Several other
stimuli more harmonious with Kamal 2014).
studies also demonstrated how
the brain’s sensory processing
certain non-natural structures Both of these theories have
(Moran 2019). This lower
(such as those that captivate been supported by evidence
effort processing allows for the
and support curiosity) can that the presence of shared
neurological areas associated
positively affect the restorative gardens, park areas and natural
with concentration to recover.
process and significantly refuges improve mental and
The natural environments
improve wellbeing. physiological wellbeing (Dong
are required to separate the
& Qin 2017).
The connection between individual from where they
environment and wellbeing were stressed and immerse
10

--- Page 11 ---
11

--- Page 12 ---
Biophilia and Neuroscience
Biophilia
The environments which facilitate optimum
wellbeing and mental ability seem to be those
which reproduce and present the mathematical Love of Life
and structural properties and relations of those
which encompassed ancestral humanity. As such,
the core aspects of the environments which Sustaining Life Positive
facilitated the development of homosapiens may from Threats Integration with
still be needed for ideal cognitive and emotional
of Death Eachother
function, even in today’s hyper-synthetic world
(Kellert, 2008).
Innate Tendancy to Focus on Life
Furthermore, analysis of the mathematical
composition of nature has shown insight into and Lifelike Processes
what forms an ideal environment. Mimicking the
key components and relations of natural forms Figure 6: Biophilic Definition. Author’s Own 2022.
can bring the natural elements into otherwise
purely synthetic environments (Salingaros 2012).
These mathematical compositions and patterns
have a direct influence on the neurology of the area in a position in which they must adopt what
experiencer, potentially though the modulation of Richard P. Feynman referred to as a ‘satisfactory
pleasure-regulating opioid receptors (Biederman philosophy of ignorance’. A realisation that whilst
and Vessel 2006). humbling, has facilitated enormous progress.
Biophilic design, especially within the Like many other complex areas, the answer
architectural space, seeks to reconnect modern probably does not lie in a direct and linear
society to the natural world. This goal however interrogation of the problems but instead in a
has been hindered by numerous challenges both multifaceted and multidirectional inquisition into
internal and external to the design community the intricacies of what biophilic design could be
(Kellert 2008). The first and potential core issue and how it may function.
appears to be a lack of clarity of the specific aim Neuroscience research has shown a direct
of biophilic design (Zhong, Schröder & Bekkering connection between the shapes and forms
2022). What does it mean to reconnect modern of a biophilic or natural space and the visual
society to the natural world? To answer this, firstly processing areas of the human brain (Bratman,
there needs to be a deep understanding of how Hamilton & Daily 2012). The specific curvilinear
humans evolved to connect with nature. patterns of the stimuli appear to activate
It is only then that adjustments can then be specialised neuronal systems that may be
made based on the highlighted differences present to identify resources and environments
between then and now. Once variances have that facilitate survival and reproduction. This
been identified, precise mechanisms must be ingrained value of aesthetics has been noted in
considered to ensure the responses are not several studies, whereby respondents report a
misguided or vague. For example to identify the sense of order and feelings of visual ease after
mechanisms by which humans interact with the viewing (Sternberg & Wilson 2006).
natural and synthetic worlds, you will need to Another observed entangling of visual stimuli
understand the mechanisms of human physiology and cognitive behaviour has been the direct but
and psychology so that any manipulation of abstract eliciting of visual memory. The organised
the human-environment paradigm will not be complexity of the natural patterns appears to
detrimental. This, though becoming increasingly provoke the viewer to search through their
complex already, is only the beginning as it is also memory in hopes of identifying novel stimuli.
important to consider how modern society is This searching is the foundation of intrigue and
formed, how people currently live and what the provokes mental positive feedback and feelings of
current state of design is. beauty and joy.
This puts designers and scientists within the
12

--- Page 13 ---
Together, these two connections between how elements of an environment interact with
natural stimuli and cognitive response illustrate each other and how their composition suggests
potential mechanisms for biophilic design’s a narrative and functional interplay (Mehaffy
ability to increase wellbeing and mental wellness. 2019).
What constitutes biophilic design and what This overarching interaction and the organisation
elements are essential appears to vary between (or lack thereof) is the fundamental basis of
practitioner and purpose. Environmental visual “naturalness” and adaptability (Jiang
consultancy firm Terrapin Bright Green 2015).
deconstructed biophilic design into fourteen
Further research into how components of
patterns, grouped into three main sections,
structures are organised within synthetic and
Nature in the Space, Natural Analogues and
natural systems illustrates the necessity for
Nature of the Space (see checklist below)
consistent logic when building environments if
(Browning, Ryan & Clancy 2014). This
naturalness is to be achieved (Jiang 2016).
categorisation serves as a useful tool for
designers within and outside the field, helping The movement of focus from typical biophilic
to create guidelines and identify areas for inclusion of natural elements to the logic
consideration. By creating the three main of design and construction connects with
groups, the value of both the synthetic and a major critique of the practice of biophilic
natural components of biophilic design becomes design, especially in architecture. If research is
apparent, promoting and suggesting a more highlighting the fundamental aesthetic patterns
thorough investigation into the construction that induce the benefits of nature, it would
of an environment. Many elements of biophilic stand to reason that these aesthetic patterns
design are challenged and evaluated by can be created synthetically (Salingaros 1999).
Christopher Alexander’s theory of natural Emphasis on the overarching, collectivising
structure, which dictates that buildings develop patterns of construction and design and its
a natural visual structure when the methods interaction with subconscious thought may
used to construct them follow the processes of however stand in opposition to much of biophilic
biological growth (Gabriel & Quillien 2019). design practice.
Christopher Alexander’s work further explores
Nature in Space Experience of Place
Visual connection with nature Organised complexity
Thermal and airflow variablity Prospect and refuge
Non-visual connection with nature Transitional spaces
Non-rhythmic sensory stimuli
Presence of water
Forms and Shapes
Dynamic and/or diffused Light
Biomorphy
Geomorphology
Indirect Experience of Nature
Biomimicry
Images
Materials
Patterns
Texture
Colour Sensory variability
Shapes + Forms Information richness
Information Richness Age/change/patina
Natural Geometries Central focal point
Simulated Natural Light and Air Patterned wholes
Biomimicry Transitional spaces
Figure 7: Author’s recreation of Terrapin Bright Green’s 14 Patterns of Biophilia.2022
13

--- Page 14 ---
14

--- Page 15 ---
Research to Design
Investigation into what constitutes a natural pattern and
interaction is also critical to modern biophilic design
efficacy. Is natural reference beneficial because it is
consciously or subconsciously provocative? Will the
inclusion of elements from the 14 patterns of biophilia
create a less natural space if used in a seemingly illogical
manner? Does inauthentic reproduction of natural form
provide the wanted benefit? These are questions that
must be answered as the practice of biophila grows and
evolves.
For this project, several primary components of
natural patterns will be observed and understood. By
connecting the systems of pattern creation in nature
with the observed effect on human wellbeing, insight
can be gathered on what to replicate in synthetic
structures and how.
15

--- Page 16 ---
Aesthetics of Nature
The natural world is composed mutation happened one This co-development shapes
of a vast array of living and by one, and the organisms each party to reflect their
non-living forms, created either changed slowly, with each neighbours as the ecosystem
by their evolved biology or by alteration potentially meaning pushes towards a stable state.
forces acting upon them by the cessation of a species— The complex symbiosis of
the environment (Fattorini this risky nature of evolution environment and organism
2017). These two systems are preferences systems that creates a system in which each
both intricately formed and require minimal support component is intricately linked,
structured in and of themselves. and energy whilst gaining following a profound biological
The growth of a living structure significant benefit (Adler, and physicochemical logic
is dictated by its genome and Barabe & Jean 1997). (Gabora 2013).
physicochemical interaction
This logic is fundamental to This system of logical
with the outside world (Gullone
understanding the patterns we connections and co-
2002). The non-living shaping
see in nature. The preferenced development is a significant
of the environment stems from
efficiency of formation factor separating natural
the interactions of forces and
encourages the development of and synthetic environments.
systems, such as the movement
growth systems and practices Buildings do not share the same
of water and air, changes in
that serve multiple functions - a intricate design responses to
temperature and interactions
tree’s branches’ growth pattern their environment, and there is
with living forms. This
will spread out and fill space, not a consistent logic tying all
perpetual cycle of interaction
maximising the interaction with formations together (Alexander
between components of the
air, water, and sunlight (Jean 1999).
environment converted the
1990). Often, a specific pattern
earth into the complex and There is even greater
will address the needs of many
beautiful design we see today dissonance when comparing
organisms. The distribution
(Sanderson & Pimm 2015). patterns and design logic
characteristics of phyllotaxis
between structures that differ
At the core of each complex (the arrangement of leaves
in scale. For nature however,
system and form is an around a plant stem) allow
foundational patterns are
organised and systematic array one simple growth pattern
present in both the minute
of patterns and interactions to spread all the leaves in a
and massive, such as fractal
- essentially the universe’s way that minimises overlap
developments, biological
programming. How organisms and maximises sun and water
symmetry and phyllotactic
grow depends on the structure exposure (Pennybacker,
divergence (Alexander & Davis
of their genome, which Shipman & Newell 2015).
1981).
is reliant on the chemical Consequentially it has been
interactions of its polymers . An evolutionarily preferenced and
organism’s growth is affected is exhibited by the vast majority
by changes in environmental of plants in one way or another.
factors, such as air pressure The evolution, growth and
and temperature alterations proliferation of an organism
(Gabora 2013). within an environment
also responds to the other
It is also essential to recognise
organisms it interacts with,
the incremental and procedural
both directly and indirectly.
process of evolution. Each
16

--- Page 17 ---
Fractals
Recursive and repeating patterns
are also consistently exhibited by
natural forms as a consequence
of the simplicity and efficiency
of their core programming
(Abboushi et al. 2019). Often,
these recursive patterns become
what are known as fractals,
creating a repetition of self-
similar components where each
step of the pattern has the same
relations as the last. This property
of self-similarity is prevalent
throughout nature as it is the
outcome of hyper-irrational
mathematical relations that allow
repeating structures to result in
high integrity structures (Plawsky
1993).
Exploration of these inherent
patterns and the psychology of
humans has shed light on the
importance of fractal structures
and their visual expressions (Joye fractal environments. This expresses a fractal dimension
2007). It seems the patterns non-optimal D can exacerbate in line with what resonates
resonate with human neurology, anxiety and depression. with humans and thus might
which encourages a positive Therefore, it seems reasonable explain its intrinsic appeal
interplay between emotional to note that harnessing (Williams 2017). There is
and sensory systems and fractal the use of fractal imagery also an increase in research
imagery. and structures within an suggesting using fractal
environment has been shown imagery in art therapy,
The unique qualities of fractal
to improve mental acuity and where the use of generative
patterns and geometries have
wellbeing (Ma, He & Lu 2021). algorithms can connect
been shown to have calming,
patients’ modern inclinations
almost anxiolytic effects on Research into the effects of
and their evolutionary
viewers (Salingaros 2012). fractal imagery has coincided
preferences (potentially
According to research, this is with other fractal-related
enhancing the therapeutic
because the relationship between investigations. It appears that
benefit) (Mikiten, Salingaros &
the fracticality of a pattern or the art of Jackson PolloFckra ctal Dimension (D)
Yu 2000).
shape and the psychological effect
of the viewer is related to the
fractal dimension of the structure
(D) (Fernández-Martínez &
Sánchez-Granero 2014). Humans
respond ideally when the D value
is between 1.3 and 1.5, regardless
of the shape of the structure
(Abboushi et al. 2019). The
prevalence of simple structures
in synthetic environments and
the increase in mental stress may
be due to being the antithesis of
xednI-tH
Figure 8: Key values and equations of fractal mathematics and psychological affect.
Author’s Own 2022.
Figure 9: Relation between fractal mathematics and visual appearance. Author’s Own
2022.
17

--- Page 18 ---
Natural Patterns: Local Symmetry
Simple, small-scale symmetry is of many structures (Lima- These symmetries don’t only
incredibly prevalent throughout De-Faria 1997). Allowing for occur in living organisms.
natural structures, potentially higher uniformity of stacking or Snowflakes and bubbles
due to the algorithmically a more even balance. Would a and even planets seem to
growing forms reacting to horse with four legs on one side exhibit basic symmetry of
specific variables in specific be able to gallop? shape. This is usually due to
ways, plants, animals and other the fundamental nature and
Alternatively, symmetry may
organic life present many of mechanisms of physics and
just be the consequence of
their features rich with local chemistry, with forces pushing
the simplest algorithm taking
symmetry (Jean 1990). To have and pulling and reactive agents
preference in the evolutionary
one developmental procedure diffusing in specific patterns.
race. Having a cleaner,
cover two halves of a structure
simple, and more efficient What is important to note
has obvious benefits over
developmental pathway may however, is that local
having a unique procedure for
lead to fewer chances of small symmetries of nature
each. There would need to be
evolutionary errors ending a rarely result in a perfectly
large amounts of time, energy
genetic lineage. Maybe because symmetrical whole (Hileman
and mutations spent before
of the simplicity, developing 2014). The changes in the
a synergistic pair was found
symmetrical components and surrounding environment,
(Joly & Schoen 2021). This logic
forms was just the fastest way epigenetic changes, mutations,
expands even further for many
for an organism to become a growth errors and many
organisms throughout nature.
complex and comprehensive other factors may alter how
Iconically, a starfish’s “star” like
structure. By having changes in a structure develops. The
shape is due to the rotational
cellular growth driven by only a consequences are a more
symmetry of its legs (see right,
few positional metrics it allows adapted and functional form,
middle image) (McEdward
for more focus to be on how or one that’s misshapenness
1995).
and when to change (Chou et al. hinders performance,
In addition, local symmetry 2019). potentially impeding overall
may improve the functionality function.
18

--- Page 19 ---
Bilateral
Radial
Spherical
Figure 10: Biological Symmetry and natural analogues. Author’s Own 2022.
19

--- Page 20 ---
Phyllotaxis
In botany, phyllotaxis (from Ancient Greek phúllon ‘leaf’, and táxis ‘arrangement’) or
phyllotaxy is the arrangement of leaves on a plant stem. Phyllotactic spirals form a distinctive
class of patterns in nature (Reinhardt & Gola 2022).
The structures of nature are amongst designers and plant morphogenesis. The
often composed of simple mathematicians. dynamic nature of plant-organ
repeating patterns that evolved development is inherently
It is possible to generate
to achieve functional goals. The linked to the patterning
other number sets using
patterned formation of plant process, with researchers
similar rules to the Fibonacci
organs around a central axis suggesting many logical
Sequence by adding the
-phyllotaxis- is an example that reasons for the precise pattern
preceding two numbers in a
has intrigued and perplexed of phyllotaxy (Richards 2013).
group to create the next. Some
biologists and mathematicians
of these sequences are crucial Rather than constructing
since as early as 285BC (Adler,
to studying phyllotaxis, such an embryonic plan, plants
Barabe & Jean 1997).
as [1, 3, 4, 7, 11, …] and [2, 5, primarily produce their organs
Pliny (23 A.D.–79 A.D.), in his 7, 12, …]. Most importantly, procedurally throughout their
Natural History, describes the the Golden Number (τ)- lives. This system of growth,
orpine plant as ‘a ramose, hairy equivalent to [((sqrt(5)+1)/2] patterns the plant’s body in
plant with five or six leaves - related to the Fibonacci phyllotactic spirals encouraging
at regular intervals, arranged Sequence by the formula of specific end structures. The
circularly around the branches’ limFk+1/Fk = τ. This relation particular angle expressed is
(Adler, Barabe & Jean 1997). between phyllotaxis and the likely related to conditions
Fibonacci Sequence clearly when the pattern is first
A millennia later, the
parallels the number of spirals established (Douady & Couder,
mathematician Leonardo
in plants such as daisies 1992; Smith et al., 2006).
Fibonacci of Pisa’s (1175–
following the sequence. The
1240) book, Liber Abaci Of note, current research
angle of divergence between
(1202), provided solutions to understanding indicates that it
consecutive growth on a plant
the issue of rabbit population may also be important to focus
spiral (genetic spiral) is also
growth. To illustrate the on why plants preference spiral
generally around 137.5 degrees
progression of the population, phyllotaxy instead of why they
[ 360 degrees x limF2k+1/Fk ]
Fibonacci developed the specifically exhibit rotations
or [360 degrees / τ ].
sequence [ 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, of 137.5 degrees (Reinhardt &
21, …, Fk, Fk+1, …] where The study of phyllotaxy has Gola 2022).
each term after the second is significantly developed over
the sum of the two preceding the past century with the
it, and Fk is the kth term of involvement and inclusion of
the sequence (Adler, Barabe many areas of mathematics,
& Jean 1997). This sequence including analytic and
of numbers is the Fibonacci hyperbolic geometry assisting
Sequence and is famous those who study and research
20

--- Page 21 ---
Figure 11: Phyllotaxy and Examples. Author’s Own 2022.
21

--- Page 22 ---
Biophilic Design Precedents
The Khoo Teck Puat Hospital, located in Yishun, Singapore, was
designed utilising many aspects of biophilia. The structure is covered
in a multitude of different plans and contains large green areas with
waterfalls and grottos (‘The Architect’s Perspective: Khoo Teck Puat
Hospital - RMJM’ 2010).
The complex also attempts to direct the natural light, creating a
diffused luminescence throughout whilst also reducing direct glare.
The building’s walls house fins that channel wind into the building,
potentially increasing the airflow up to 30%. Solar panels also
power large fans to further enhance air flow in public areas. Air is
circulated from the cooler, inner courtyards to the rest of the hospital,
minimising cooling loads (‘2017 Award Winner: Khoo Teck Puat
Hospital | Living-Future.org’ 2017).
Ethimo and Marco Lavit collaborated on wellbeing focused reading
lounges that aim to provide a natural dialogue between person and
space (‘PROJECTS — Atelier LAVIT’ 2021). The array of slates create
a shifting light and filters the perception of the outside environment.
Created as a place to rest, meditate and relax, the reading nest forms
a protective cocoon around its inhabitants.
The huts are movable and unfixed, standing 320cm tall and 300cm
wide allowing them to be placed in optimum positions in response to
seasonal and functional requirements.
These structures use natural, tactile materials and allow for a refuge
whilst still connecting with the environment. The parallel, sharp lines
however anchor the structure with a synthetic unnatural aesthetic.
2022 Pritzker Prize Laureate Francis Kéré designed Xylem to visually
emulate the cellular structure of a tree (‘Kéré | Work’ 2022).
The carved wooden seating is asymmetrically and obscurely arranged
so that visitors are able to sit and view both outwards and inwards at
any angle.
This is a clear example of a biophilic natural reference and use of
natural materials, addressing many of the 14 Patterns of Biophilia.
The structure however remains aesthetically synthetic with a
prevalence of repetitive Euclidean geometry. This makes Xylem a
great example of how natural components and reference may not be
enough to create a natural seeming structure and in turn highlights
the interplay between patterns of scale and representation of growth.
22

--- Page 23 ---
Amanda Levete’s MPavillion (2015) is constructed of over forty
fibreglass petals mounted on ninety five carbon fibre stalks. This
array creates a forrest of dappled shade and diffused light. The light
carbon fibre posts allow enough movement for the structure to sway
in the wind and move the rounded organic shadows around the space
further increasing the dynamics of the space’s lighting.
This structure emphasises the ability of synthetic material to emulate
nature and provoke the sense of a cohesive natural environment.
Without attempting to directly mimic the aesthetics of trees, this
pavilion expertly interacts with the sunlight and space to recreate the
feeling of a forest and thus is a great example of visually connecting
with nature
Designed to evoke a conception of flesh, NEON’s Skin critiques
the unnatural and anti-humanistic forms that dominate modern
architecture by presenting an extreme antithesis. A woven elastic
structure is suspended on a frame with a single opening. When the
viewer enters, the shape and structure deform around them, reacting
to their weight and movement. This disorients the participant,
blurring the boundary between artwork and body.
An extreme experimentation of form, Skin shows how reactivity to
occupation as well as a patterned whole can create a naturalistic
structure. The constant shifting of shape and space due to interaction
makes this structure seem alive.
The 2019 NEON Shiver House is a contemporary Finnish Hut
(mökki) with a roof composed of 600 counterweighted shingles.
These shingles dynamically move on supporting axles in response
to the direction and velocity of the wind. This movement alters the
obstruction of light and this creates an environment of naturally
dynamic light, elevating the otherwise simple shape in a naturally
complex environment.
This utilization of environmental reactivity creates a space that has
the ability to connect those within to the outside environment in a
manner which aims to provoke a deeper connection.
23

--- Page 24 ---
Design Methodology
Following the initial review of the tool, initial experimentation The geometry nodes created
literature and interrogation of of form included sketches large compilations of potential
biophilic design and current and 3D modelling along with core structures such as point
practices, it seemed most associated mathematics and distribution and curve specifics
appropriate to delve deeper coding. The experiments led which were then used to fine-
into botanical mathematics to the identification of critical tune the more formalised code.
and the geometry of nature process steps for generating
As both the geometry node
to develop more significant a dome-like structure that
feature and Python script
insights into how synthetic expresses the geometry of
were interfaced within
structures could authentically phyllotaxy.
Blender, the outputs could be
mimic natural forms.
The first step in the quickly rendered and their
As much of the research process was identifying aesthetics assessed to guide the
related to biophilia attributes the mathematics required development process further.
a high value to this geometry, for generating phyllotactic
Additionally, any issues with
it seemed logical to create points. Secondly, it was vital
the foundational mathematics
core structures of a built to transform the points
became immediately
environment that express into an aesthetic structure
apparent, which indicated
the aesthetics detailed in through a series of connecting
the requirement for further
the research, principally joints. Finally, using the 3D
avenues of exploration and
the detailed patterns and modelling program Blender,
refinement.
associated visual relations. It the mathematics were
became apparent, however, that translated into the parametric
authentically recreating natural geometry nodes feature and a
patterns required an advanced Python script run in Blender’s
level of mathematic capability, embedded Python editor.
which at times was alienating.
These two functions were
Addressing the knowledge
fundamental to the iterative
gap led to the development of
process of the creation of a
a tool comprising accessible
generative algorithm. The
algorithms to successfully
geometry nodes facilitated
and authentically combine
quick visualisation of
the properties of nature into
mathematic relations and
a synthetic space – a seamless
algorithm functions, whilst
connection between science
the Python code allowed for
and design.
more specific and sophisticated
To organically illustrate and generation.
facilitate the development of
24

--- Page 25 ---
25

--- Page 26 ---
INITIAL EXPERIMENTS
How to convert phyllotaxis into a dome?
Plants grow from the center out, with
their leaves being phyllotactically
distributed and spread based on
growth order and time. This, if
simplified creates a dome with each
leaf creating an outer point at a
specific location.
Naturally however, the leaves
will occupy the majority of space
between the central axis and the
outer point. This would prevent most
functional use inside the dome if
recreated architecturally and thus
is an inadequate translation of the
geometry. The question to answer
then is “how can the outer points
be distributed in accordance with
phyllotaxy without the structure
occupying the inner area?”
To the right are renderings of several
visual experiments in which different
avenues were explored. Firstly is the
consequence of forming a low polygon
spiral that was a simplification of the
golden spiral. This was then cloned
and rotated to create a variance of
frameworks that united curves into
domes. These domes could in turn
have an outer layer attached to further
solidify and exaggerate the shape.
These domes, though using the golden
angle, do not capture the aesthetics
of plant growth and when mapped
against the points of phyllotaxy, only
overlap with a small subset of points
suggesting that using the golden angle
and simple repetition and rotational
symmetry would not be enough.
Investigation into the potential
mechanisms of supporting structures
however indicated that there may
be potential in some aspects of
this design, such as the interplay
between overlapping spirals. Further
investigation was needed.
Figure 12: Visual experimentation of Golden Spiral Domes. Author’s Own 2022.
26

--- Page 27 ---
Figure 13: Visual experimentation of Phyllotactic Dome. Author’s Own 2022.
A focus on the rotational component of for each point can be directly translated. Cables
phyllotaxy provided much insight into the would then attach to the two nearest poles with
potential of the form. By having a sequence of moderate tension.
“leaves” distributed around the center using a
This may however result in a structure that
divergent rotation of 137.5 degrees, the structure
is half petal and half web. Like a daisy stuck
immediately took on a natural aesthetic.
between a grassy spider nest.
Having each leaf protruding from the center was
This further exploration into composition
however difficult to achieve without obstructing
indicated how to begin the next stages of
the inner volume of the dome as each leaf needed
investigation. The construction of the dome
unique rotations and distance from the center.
as well as the development of the design
If the phyllotactic roof was suspended then methodology must follow the following steps:
there is the possibility of having three points of a
Creating the initial two dimensional arrangement
triangular petal be under tension, connecting to
of phyllotactic points;
two of four bordering poles.
Distributing them vertically into a dome;
These poles would provide-relative geographic
coordinates which would be used to determine Connecting them together into a supported
distance of each point of the petal. Essentially structure;
moving from (-x,-y) to (x, y). In addition to the
Creating the outer layer and/or leaves.
vertical z dimension, predetermined coordinates
Figure 12: Visual experimentation of Golden Spiral Domes. Author’s Own 2022. Figure 14: Visual experimentation of Phyllotactic Roofing. Author’s Own 2022.
27

--- Page 28 ---
Figure 15: Algorithmically generated
Phyllotaxis z-view. Author’s Own 2022.
Creation of a Phyllotactic Dome Part 1:
Generation of Phyllotactic Points
To create a phyllotactic dome, phyllotactically Because in nature the dome’s curvature varies to
distributed points must first be created. These such a degree, specificity of the dome curvature
points, distributed following the equation: in the generation was not needed. Thus for
this methodology and created algorithms, the
instantly form the unique aesthetics associated relationship between point number and vertical
with plant growth. height was linear. This allowed the radial
distribution to also dictate the vertical, which
The radius of the phyllotactically distributed
creates a near uniform dome.
points need to be constrained to the radius
of the wanted dome. This can be enforced by The height of the dome was dictated by the
altering the distribution coefficient C in the equation:
phyllotactic equation. As it dictates how far
out the points will range depending on point
number, then when creating the final point the The dome’s points begin at the inside which is
value of C must be so that the final point’s polar to be the highest point, thus the first point must
radius equals the radius of the wanted dome: begin at the maximum height and the final point
will be at the minimum.
These equations were used to first create a
generative geometry node arrangement in
By following this equation the polar radius of the
Blender for prototyping and then when confirmed
final point will always be the radius of the wanted
it became the initial component of the Python
dome regardless of point number. This now sets
code.
a hard boundary for the shape and begins the
definition of the structure.
Making this dome vertical requires developing a
relationship between either the point number or
radius and the vertical transformation.
28

--- Page 29 ---
Figure 16: Algorithmically generated
Phyllotaxis x-view. Author’s Own 2022.
The geometry nodes seen above show the
creation of the polar coordinates of phyllotaxis
and subsequent conversion to Cartesian
coordinates needed to display them within
Blender. To the right is this recreated in Python
to begin the algorithm.
The following pages will show the generation of
Figure 17(top)/18(bottom): Phyllotactic generation in Blender’s
points per half degree of the angle of divergence geometry nodes and Python. Author’s Own 2022.
(0 degrees to 179.5.) This visualisation makes
obvious both the extreme differences half a
degree can make as well as the significance of the
golden angle (137.5 degrees).
29

--- Page 30 ---
.2202
nwO
s’rohtuA
.selgna
ecnegrevid
gniyrav
fo
slarips
tniop
detareneG
:91
erugiF
30

--- Page 31 ---
.2202
nwO
s’rohtuA
.selgna
ecnegrevid
gniyrav
fo
slarips
tniop
detareneG
:91
erugiF
.2202
nwO
s’rohtuA
.selgna
ecnegrevid
gniyrav
fo
slarips
tniop
detareneG
:02
erugiF
31

--- Page 32 ---
.2202
nwO
s’rohtuA
.selgna
ecnegrevid
gniyrav
fo
slarips
tniop
detareneG
:12
erugiF
32

--- Page 33 ---
.2202
nwO
s’rohtuA
.selgna
ecnegrevid
gniyrav
fo
slarips
tniop
detareneG
:12
erugiF
.2202
nwO
s’rohtuA
.selgna
ecnegrevid
gniyrav
fo
slarips
tniop
detareneG
:22
erugiF
33

--- Page 34 ---
.2202
nwO
s’rohtuA
.selgna
ecnegrevid
gniyrav
fo
slarips
tniop
detareneG
:32
erugiF
34

--- Page 35 ---
.2202
nwO
s’rohtuA
.selgna
ecnegrevid
gniyrav
fo
slarips
tniop
detareneG
:32
erugiF
.2202
nwO
s’rohtuA
.selgna
ecnegrevid
gniyrav
fo
slarips
tniop
detareneG
:42
erugiF
35

--- Page 36 ---
Creation of a Phyllotactic Dome Part 2:
Creating a latticed dome with phyllotactic points
Figure 25: Lattice Structure Generation in Python. Author’s Own 2022.
Formation of the spiral dome and less regular domes being point will have a unique
structures, as well as the established. From investigation distance from the center. This
phyllotactic roofing, indicated into how these lattices are will also mean that the first
that there was a potential formed, both ideologically segment of each parabola will
lattice structure that would be and mathematically, it became vary greatly as the distance of
able to connect the phyllotactic apparent that a variation of a each lines first point will be
points together. This lamella dome was needed. further away from the center
framework could then support than the last. The order of the
This dome is primarily
the display of other aesthetic lines, from shortest to longest
composed of overlapping
features in a plant-like manner. first segment will also appear
parallel arches, and is a
irregular as each line is being
To explore this concept, primary method of connecting
formed 137.5 degrees from the
research into the structure non-linear points in a dome. It
previous.
of other lattice domes such also as a default has geometry
as Buckminster Fuller’s aesthetically similar to These issues required the
geodesic domes was vital. phyllotactic structures. The creation of an algorithm
The non repeating, non- curves of each arch can be capable of linking each point
euclidean geometry needed segmented into a series of in overlapping parabolas that
for the phyllotactic points was straight components if needed are unique and in line with the
unfortunately incompatible as long as the point of joining wanted phyllotactic geometry.
with the structural logic behind remains at the intersection of
If the needed curves have to
the geodesic domes as no the curve, thus allowing for an
connect through the points
repeating shape would be able easier manufacture.
distributed on the dome and
to connect the needed locations
The parabolas usually used the curves are approximately
Geodesic domes are not the to create lamella domes are evenly distributed around
only lattice domes possible regular and parallel which the dome then the curves
however (see image above), is not possible with the themselves will need to be
with other more complex phyllotactic pattern as each composed of a subset of the
36

--- Page 37 ---
Figure 26: Variation of lattice domes from Frank M.J. Van der Linden’s Patterns for Domes 2022
domes points. so on. The next line would be would display what each array
point 2 connected to point 23... of curves would look like (see
The subset of points, being
eventually ending with a line left). The initial creation of
relatively even, would also
beginning at point 21. this tool was within Blender’s
need to not overlap with each
geometry nodes function.
other so as to create one half of This sequence creates almost
the lamella dome arches. parallel arches, fulfilling half of Making each curve array
the lamella dome’s needs. The visual highlighted two novel
From this logic, the curved
other half of the lines can be insights. Firstly, the steepness
connection of points could
created using the same process and direction of the potential
be created by creating curves
with a different denominator. curves vary widely, and
based off a denominator of the
secondly, each useful subset
point number and have the
of points are either Fibonacci
modulo dictate the connection
Numbers or multiples of
of these points. This would
Fibonacci Numbers.
result in every Nth point being
connected together, creating The second discovery was both
the curve (N->Nx)*point surprising and reassuring, as
number. If this was then it solidified the maintenance
repeated N times around the of the core geometry and
dome with each iteration also confirmed that the
adding one position, then you mathematics used to create the
will end up with N number tools was correct.
of lines connecting every Nth Not all subsets of points will
Now that these curves had
point. work however, as the dome,
been discovered, combinations
to function, needs to remain
As an example, if you were were needed to be assessed to
hollow with no lines crossing
to connect every 21st line, determine functional pairs as
the inner area. Finding a useful
you would need 21 lines, well as a method of creating a
set of numbers to form the
with the first beginning with generative algorithm.
dome required the formation
point 1 connecting to point
of a generative algorithm that The following pages will
22 connecting to point 43 and
37

--- Page 38 ---
Lattice Denominators 0-71
Figure 27: Line denominator based curve. Author’s Own 2022.
38

--- Page 39 ---
Figure 28: Line denominator based curve. Author’s Own 2022.
39

--- Page 40 ---
Lattice Denominators 71-143
Figure 29: Line denominator based curve. Author’s Own 2022.
40

--- Page 41 ---
Figure 30: Line denominator based curve. Author’s Own 2022.
41

--- Page 42 ---
Lattice Combination Examples
By simply connecting the points
in a domed lattice, the natural
geometry of phyllotaxis can be
instantly and easily observed.
The central connections,
composed of the first pole of
each curve - create a simplified,
pointed flower shape. The
surrounding points, spiralling
outwards, mimic the layering
of pine cones, ferns and roses.
Each hole between the points
creating a silhouette of a petal
or leaf.
The overlapping of similar but
unique curves in this structure
results in each silhouetted petal
also being unique, helping to
form the wanted organised
complexity of natural structure.
42

--- Page 43 ---
Figure 16: Line denominator based curve. Author’s Own 2022.
43

--- Page 44 ---
Lattice Combination Examples
By allowing for the adjustment of
point number, line denominators
and dome shape, the structure
can vary widely in complexity. As
long as the combination of curves
don’t intersect the same exact
location, the structure can become
complexly woven. Each point does
not need to necessarily connect
with the closest four and can
instead weave a further distance.
This increased complexity
retains the inherent aesthetics
of phyllotactic geometry as the
points retain their distribution.
Interesting experimentation
is possible with the connecting
curves as their structural
characteristics may vary
dramatically.
44

--- Page 45 ---
45

--- Page 46 ---
Lattice Combination Examples
The algorithmically derived
points and dimensions allow
for the meeting of many design
requirements. If there is a need
to reduce material cost, the
structure can be generated to
have thin connecting poles of
minimal length.
These points all connect
in a manner that results in
structurally simple rhomboids.
This simplicity may also lead
to increased ease of use as
the points can be connected
in sequence based on spatial
position.
46

--- Page 47 ---
47

--- Page 48 ---
Lattice Combination Examples
48

--- Page 49 ---
49

--- Page 50 ---
Joints
Figure 31: Polar Coordinates of lattice joints. Author’s Own 2022.
Calculation of the joints is essential for the The points that these joints connect to are simply
generation of buildable structures and can be the ones preceding it and following it on both
performed as part of the generative algorithm. curves.
By creating sets of coordinates from each point
For the outer most joints, there can be an
and the location of the points(n) they
addition of an extra joint arm to the array. This
connect to .
arm will face directly down (or to another
Relative coordinates can be derived from this position if wanted) so that the dome may have
and converted into polar legs connecting to the ground or another base
coordinates which will indicate the structure.
relative direction each arm of the joint will have
This array can also be appended to contain
to aim in order to reach the connected points.
attachments for an outer structure such as the
Using the derived polar coordinates for each arm leaves detailed in later pages.
of the joint, the radius can now be adjusted to
correspond with the length wanted for the joint
arm.
The new polar coordinates (arm 1 to arm n) can
then be bundled in an array with the Cartesian
(or polar) coordinates of the joint’s origin point:
.
Before these calculations can be performed,
which joints connect to which must be derived.
This is calculated by assessing each joints
placement in the intersecting curves.
So for each joint, it’s origin will lay at a certain
position on a curve derived from one lattice
denominator and a certain position on another.
50

--- Page 51 ---
51

--- Page 52 ---
Negative Space
The creation of the framework
in turn creates negative spaces
between the joints. These spaces
are a main aesthetic component
of the resulting dome and can be
utilised to maximise function.
For these spaces to be used the
dimensions are to be discovered.
As each space is unique, this is
necessary to be calculated during
the point’s genesis.
Similar to the calculation of the
joints, the surrounding joint
locations are needed to be
assessed. For the identification
of the negative spaces’ corners, a
different variation of points are
needed.
The origin will form the topmost
point, two points will be derived
from the subsequent points on
both the origin joint’s curves. The
final “bottom” corner is discovered
by transposing one of the previous
two joints down one of their
denominators.
Once these points are
discovered the inner trapezoid
can be calculated. Each side
Figure 32: Python script to calculate area between dome joints. Author’s Own 2022.
length between point 1 and
point two is calculated by:
With each inner angle being:
These calculated trapezoids can be
used to create inner fillings for the
negative space, allowing for the
creation of glass panes.
Figure 33: Sketch of area between dome joints. Author’s Own 2022.
52

--- Page 53 ---
53

--- Page 54 ---
Leaves
While creating the joints it is possible to create attachments for outer components I have called “leaves”
for obvious reasons.
These leaves are in essence the main aesthetic feature of the dome and will exaggerate the geometry’s
plant-like shape (see above).
The angle of protrusion is created when the polar coordinates of the joint arm are created and can be
linked to other variables of the algorithm.
For instance, if wanted, the leaves can begin almost flat with the dome and become more horizontal as
they are generated further down. They may also be twisted and transformed in other ways generatively.
Alteration of the shape, size and relations of these leaves can result in a variety of different structural
aesthetics.
This manipulation can be of great use if the generation is to mimic a specific plant or form.
54

--- Page 55 ---
The leaves do not need to be themselves naturally shaped for the resulting dome to exhibit a natural
aesthetic. The above dome is an example, with circular monocle-shaped glass leaves arranged around
the dome it develops the appearance of a budding or infant flower.
55

--- Page 56 ---
Algorithm Flexibility and Use
With many of the algorithm’s Depending on the total point
variables being easily number, the size of N can
manipulated, the dome’s become quite large and the
composition can vary greatly, combination of the two curves
ranging from a small structure can lead to both simple and
with few and thick poles (see complex structures.
opposite page) to a large
Certain combinations lead
complex dome woven with
to wide and short trapezoid
many thin poles.
openings whilst others lead to
There is also the ability to tall and thin openings.
generate structural dimensions
Some, as shown later in this
for the area between joints,
report, appear to weave around
allowing for the filling of space
each other generating a birds
and creation of glass domes
nest appearance.
(see bottom of opposite page).
Finally, though the purpose
The generation of the joints
of the algorithm is to follow
have many manipulatable
phyllotactic principles, the
variables including the
angle of divergence can be
thickness, length and number
altered also. This will create
of arms. With the ability to add
a near infinite range of non-
an extra arm onto the joint,
phyllotactic structures.
there is the ability to add a
huge variety of structures to
the outside easily.
A main component of the
algorithm, that precedes the
generation of joints and poles
is the generation of the lattice
creating curves.
As previously stated, the curves
are generated by connecting
every Nth curve with N
preferably being one of the
Fibonnacci numbers as this
leads to minimal obstruction of
the internal volume.
56

--- Page 57 ---
57

--- Page 58 ---
Blender, Geometry Nodes and Python
Above is an image of the primary geometry nodes used to generate the array of possible curves and
point distributions. The left of the node map shows the inputs into this node-based algorithm. This
then begins several parallel branches. The upper third creates and connects the subset of points that
becomes the lattice curves. These are formed by generating a line and mapping the points to a modulo of
a denominator.
58

--- Page 59 ---
Figure 34: Geometry node based phyllotactic dome algorithm. Author’s Own 2022.
The central section is the primary generation of phyllotactic points. This then connects to the upper
section as well as to another collection that creates small spheres that are used to illustrate the point
locations.
The bottom most section creates a text output that is present at the bottom of each image render. This
simplifies the assessment process and allows for faster processing of algorithmic changes.
For the generation of two curve sets the upper section is duplicated and a second denominator is
connected as an input. This curve set and the previous can be used to create the entire lattice.
59
The following pages show the functional Python script that was developed from the geometry nodes.

--- Page 60 ---
Python Script: Main Generator
import bpy, bmesh
import numpy as np
import math
import os
import pprint
#=========================================== ######### FUNCTION TO MAKE LINES ###########
################## INPUT ################### def makeLine(start, end, radiusX, radiusY, name, collection,
# standard measurement is meters mat):
radius = 3
height = 3 startLocation = start
pointNumber = 610 endLocation = end
jointDiam = 0.015 C = bpy.context
jointLength = jointDiam*4 line = bpy.data.meshes.new(name)
poleRad=0.01 bm = bmesh.new()
vertNum = 21 v1 = bm.verts.new( startLocation )
horizNum =34 v2 = bm.verts.new( endLocation )
leafGen=0 e = bm.edges.new([v1,v2])
topPoint = [0.0, 0.0, height]
# top line or flat dictates whether the top poles are a flat piece or bm.to_mesh(line)
as a bordered ring
topLineOrFlat = 0 o = bpy.data.objects.new( name, line )
armReduction = jointLength/3 bpy.data.collections[collection].objects.link(o)
# ==========================================
pp=pprint.pprint bpy.context.view_layer.objects.active = o
#=======JOIN============== o.select_set(True)
context = bpy.context o.modifiers.new(“Skin”, “SKIN”)
scene = context.scene o.modifiers.new(“Bevel”, “BEVEL”)
def join(names): setMat(mat)
obs = list(filter(None, (scene.objects.get(n) for n in names))) bpy.context.object.modifiers[“Bevel”].width = radiusX/1.5
obs[0].select_set(True) bpy.context.object.modifiers[“Bevel”].segments = 3
bpy.ops.object.join(
{“active_object” : obs[0], for v in o.data.skin_vertices[0].data:
“object” : obs[0], v.radius = radiusX, radiusY
“selected_objects” : obs,
“selected_editable_objects” : obs #def sphereAtJoint(location, name, collection, mat):
}) # bpy.ops.mesh.primitive_uv_sphere_add(radius=joint-
#=========== function to change material========== Diam,location=location,scale=(1.2, 1.2, 1.2))
def setMat(matName): # o=
mat = bpy.data.materials.get(matName) # bpy.data.objects.name=name
for o in bpy.context.selected_objects: # bpy.data.collections[collection].objects.link(o)
if o.data.materials: # setMat(mat)
o.data.materials[0] = mat #
else: def sphereAtJoint(location, name, collection, mat, scale):
o.data.materials.append(mat)
bpy.ops.mesh.primitive_uv_sphere_add(
# deselect object function segments=32,
def deselect(): ring_count=16,
for obj in bpy.data.objects: radius=jointDiam*scale,
obj.select_set(False) location=location)
current_name = bpy.context.selected_objects[0].name
def distanceFromCenter(coord): sphere = bpy.data.objects[current_name]
x=coord[0] sphere.name = name
y=coord[1] setMat(mat)
z=coord[2] sphere.data.name = name
bpy.data.collections[“joints2”].objects.link(sphere)
xyDistance=np.sqrt(x**2+y**2) #bpy.data.collections[collection].objects.link(sphere)
return xyDistance return
Figure 35-42: Python based phyllotactic dome algorithm. Author’s Own 2022.
60

--- Page 61 ---
Python Script: Main Generator
# == CARTESIAN TO SPHERICAL and back v+=1
def asCartesian(rthetaphi): while h<=horizNum:
#takes list rthetaphi (single coord) if (point+h)%(horizNum)==0:
r = rthetaphi[0] horizSet[h].append(vector)
theta = rthetaphi[1]* np.pi/180 # to radian h+=1
phi = rthetaphi[2]* np.pi/180 point+=1
x = r * np.sin( theta ) * np.cos( phi ) #=========== joint finder ===============#
y = r * np.sin( theta ) * np.sin( phi ) h=0
z = r * np.cos( theta ) h2=0
return [x,y,z] v=0
def asSpherical(xyz): v2=0
#takes list xyz (single coord) donePC=0
x = xyz[0] while v<len(vertSet):
y = xyz[1] while v2<(len(vertSet[v])):
z = xyz[2] while h<len(horizSet):
r = np.sqrt(x*x + y*y + z*z) while h2<(len(horizSet[h])):
theta = np.arccos(z/r)*180/ np.pi #to degrees if horizSet[h][h2] == [0.0, 0.0, height] == vertSet[v]
phi = np.arctan2(y,x)*180/ np.pi [v2]:
return [r,theta,phi] joints.append([[0.0, 0.0, height],[0.0, 0.0,
#+++++++++++ BEGINNING ++++++++++++++++ height],[0.0, 0.0, height]])
points = []
vertSet = [] elif horizSet[h][h2] == vertSet[v][v2]:
horizSet = [] jointOrigin=horizSet[h][h2]
joints = []
polesVert=[] if (h2+1)<len(horizSet[h]):
polesHoriz=[] horizForward=horizSet[h][h2+1]
polesV=[] else:
polesH=[] horizForward=[horizSet[h][h2][0], horizSet[h]
bottomJoints=[] [h2][1], 0]
holeLeaves=[] horizBackward=horizSet[h][h2-1]
#======== make vert and horiz set size === #
v=0 if (v2+1)<len(vertSet[v]):
while v<=vertNum: vertForward=vertSet[v][v2+1]
vertSet.append([[0.0, 0.0, height]]) else:
v+=1 vertForward=[vertSet[v][v2][0], vertSet[v][v2]
[1], 0]
h=0 vertBackward=vertSet[v][v2-1]
while h<=horizNum:
horizSet.append([[0.0, 0.0, height]]) if vertForward==horizForward:
h+=1 bottomJoints.append([jointOrigin, horizBack-
#=========== set phyllo base ==========# ward, vertBackward])
point = 1
cspread = radius/(math.sqrt(pointNumber)) polesH.append([horizBackward, jointOrigin])
angle = math.pi*(3-math.sqrt(5)) #golden angle polesV.append([vertBackward, jointOrigin])
#========== make phyllo points ========# jointVector=[jointOrigin,horizForward,horizBack-
while point<=pointNumber: ward,vertForward,vertBackward]
theta = point*angle joints.append(jointVector)
r = cspread * np.sqrt(point) h2+=1
x = r*np.cos(theta)
y = r*np.sin(theta) h+=1
z= (point/pointNumber*(-height))+height h2=1
vector = [x, y, z] v2+=1
points.append(vector) h=1
#find denominators for set v+=1
v=1 v2=1
h=1
while v<=vertNum:
if (point+v)%(vertNum)==0:
vertSet[v].append(vector)
61

--- Page 62 ---
Python Script: Main Generator
# ============== JOINTS =================== # deselect()
joints2=[] while pV<len(polesV):
joints2Angles=[] start = polesV[pV][0]
for group in joints: end = polesV[pV][1]
origin = group[0]
x1=origin[0] if start == [0.0, 0.0, height]:
y1=origin[1] topPieces.append(asSpherical(end))
z1=origin[2] else:
v=0 name = “poleV{}, {} , {}”.format(pV, start, end)
#set join origin coordinates radiusX = poleRad
joinArms=[origin] radiusY=poleRad
joinAngles=[origin]
while v<len(group): makeLine(start, end, radiusX, radiusY, name, “polesV”,
vector=group[v] “Stainless Steel”)
x2=vector[0] pV+=1
y2=vector[1] #========= top con ==============#
z2=vector[2] vP=0
#coordinate difference # take third element for sort (phi angle)
def takeX(elem):
x4=x2-x1 return elem[2]
y4=y2-y1
z4=z2-z1 topPieces.sort(key=takeX)
#xyz to r theta phi (theta is xy phi is zx) top2=[]
polarCo=asSpherical([x4, y4, z4]) t=0
polarCoAdjusted=polarCo while t<(len(topPieces)-1):
polarCoAdjusted[0]=jointLength
joinAngle =polarCoAdjusted start=asCartesian(topPieces[t])
joinAngles.append(joinAngle) top2.append(start)
joinArmAngle = [[x2, y2, z2,],[polarCoAdjusted]]
end=asCartesian(topPieces[t+1])
v+=1 name = “poleTop {}”.format(vP)
joints2Angles.append(joinAngles) radiusX=poleRad
joints2.append(joinArms) radiusy=poleRad
#++++++++++++++++ make poles ++++++++++++++++#
pH=0 if not topLineOrFlat:
pV=0 makeLine(start, [0, 0, height] , radiusX, radiusY, name,
topPieces=[] “topLine”, “Stainless Steel”)
holeLeaves.append([polesH[pH][0],polesH[pH][1],topPoint])
while pH<len(polesH): t+=1
start = polesH[pH][0] vP+=1
end = polesH[pH][1]
top2.append(end)
if pH<(len(polesH)-1): if top2 and topLineOrFlat:
holeLeaves.append([polesH[pH][0],polesH[pH]
[1],polesH[pH+1][1],polesH[pH+1][0]]) edges = [[i, i+1] for i in range(len(top2)-1)]
lastEdge=[edges[-1][1], edges[0][0]]
if start == [0.0, 0.0, height]: edges.append(lastEdge)
topPieces.append(asSpherical(end))
else: vert=top2
name = “poleH{} {} , {}”.format(pH, start, end) vert.append([0,0,height])
radiusX=poleRad
radiusY=poleRad faces =[[i, i+1, (len(top2)-1)] for i in range(len(top2))]
faces.append([(len(vert)-1), (len(vert)-2), 0])
makeLine(start, end, radiusX, radiusY, name, “polesH”,
“Iron brushed”) mesh = bpy.data.meshes.new(“topmesh”)
mesh.from_pydata(vert, edges, faces)
pH+=1 mesh.update()
62

--- Page 63 ---
Python Script: Main Generator
mesh.update()
obj = bpy.data.objects.new(“topob”, mesh)
bpy.context.collection.objects.link(obj) obj = bpy.data.objects.new(name, mesh)
bpy.data.collections[“leafVert”].objects.link(obj)
deselect()
deselect()
bpy.context.view_layer.objects.active = bpy.data.ob-
jects[“topob”] leafNumber+=1
setMat(“pole1”) #+++++++++++++ make joints ++++++++++++++[
jointNum=1
o=bpy.context.active_object
o.modifiers.new(‘Solidify’, ‘SOLIDIFY’) for j in joints2Angles:
bpy.context.object.modifiers[“Solidify”].offset = 0.7
bpy.context.object.modifiers[“Solidify”].thickness = 0.05 origin = j[0]
ji=1
#=========== make hole leaves ==============#
leafNumber=0 deselect()
vertMod=0.1
for leaf in holeLeaves: toJoin=[]
if len(leaf)>3: while ji<len(j):
if distanceFromCenter(leaf[3])<distanceFromCenter(-
leaf[0]): r=0.1
leaf.pop(0) radiusX = jointDiam
leaf.pop(0) radiusY=radiusX
leaf.append(topPoint)
start = origin
vert=leaf end=j[ji]
end= asCartesian(end)
if leafGen>0:
end[0]+=start[0]
edges = [[i, i+1] for i in range(len(leaf)-1)] end[1]+=start[1]
lastEdge=[0,len(edges)-1] end[2]+=start[2]
edges.append(lastEdge) name = “join {}”.format(jointNum)
name2 = “join {} {}”.format(jointNum, ji)
faces =[[i for i in range(len(leaf))]] toJoin.append(name2)
makeLine(start, end, radiusX, radiusY, name2, “joints”,
name = “leaf {}”.format(leafNumber) “Brass”)
ji+=1
mesh = bpy.data.meshes.new(name) joinName=”join {} c”.format(jointNum)
sphereAtJoint(origin, joinName, “joints”, “Brass”, 1.2)
mesh.from_pydata(vert, edges, faces) deselect()
mesh.update() #sphereAtJoint(origin, joinName, “points”, “Brass”, 2)
toJoin.append(joinName)
obj = bpy.data.objects.new(name, mesh)
bpy.data.collections[“leaf”].objects.link(obj)
# ============== BOTTOM BITS =============
else: bj=0
vert.sort(key=takeX) #sort by z for b in bottomJoints:
edges = [] start = b[0]
end = [start[0], start[1], 0]
faces =[] name=”bottom pole {}”.format(bj)
makeLine(start, end, poleRad, poleRad, name, “bottom”,
name = “leaf Vert {}”.format(leafNumber) “Stainless Steel”)
bj+=1
mesh = bpy.data.meshes.new(name)
mesh.from_pydata(vert, edges, faces)
63

--- Page 64 ---
Python Script: Negative Space / Leaf Generator
import bpy, bmesh #============== rotate leaves ============
import numpy as np leafNumber=0
import math step=1
import os totalSteps=1
import pprint phi=40
theta=0
rad=0.2 output_dir = “E:\dropbox\Dropbox\MDIT\MP\assetts\render”
def deselect(): output_file_pattern_string = ‘render%d.jpg’
for obj in bpy.data.objects:
obj.select_set(False) for u in range(0,totalSteps):
pp=pprint.pprint anglePhi=(-phi)*(step/totalSteps)
def asCartesian(rthetaphi): angleTheta=theta
#takes list rthetaphi (single coord) heightChange=0
r = rthetaphi[0] vertOffset= 0.03
theta = rthetaphi[1]* np.pi/180 # to radian
phi = rthetaphi[2]* np.pi/180 ffor leaf in bpy.data.collections[“leafVert”].objects:
origin=len(leaf.data.vertices)-1
x = r * np.sin( theta ) * np.cos( phi ) verts=[]
y = r * np.sin( theta ) * np.sin( phi ) oX=leaf.data.vertices[origin].co[0]
z = r * np.cos( theta ) oY=leaf.data.vertices[origin].co[1]
return [x,y,z] oZ=leaf.data.vertices[origin].co[2]
def asSpherical(xyz):
#takes list xyz (single coord) heightCo=1
x = xyz[0]
y = xyz[1] if anglePhi!=0 or angleTheta!=0:
z = xyz[2] for vert in leaf.data.vertices:
r = np.sqrt(x*x + y*y + z*z)
theta = np.arccos(z/r)*180/ np.pi #to degrees if vert == leaf.data.vertices[origin]:
phi = np.arctan2(y,x)*180/ np.pi oX=vert.co[0]
return [r,theta,phi] oY=vert.co[1]
#======== function to change material======== oZ=vert.co[2]
def setMat(matName):
mat = bpy.data.materials.get(matName) verts.append([oX,oY,(oZ+vertOffset)])
for o in bpy.context.selected_objects:
if o.data.materials: else:
o.data.materials[0] = mat startX = vert.co[0]
else: startY = vert.co[1]
o.data.materials.append(mat) startZ = vert.co[2]
#============= make frame ============#
def makeLine(start, end, radiusX, radiusY, name, collection): relativeX = startX - oX
relativeY = startY - oY
startLocation = start relativeZ = startZ - oZ
endLocation = end relXY=((relativeX)+(relativeY))/2
newCart=[(startX+relXY), (startY+relXY),
C = bpy.context (startZ-(relativeZ/2)+vertOffset)]
line = bpy.data.meshes.new(name) verts.append(newCart)
bm = bmesh.new() else:
v1 = bm.verts.new( startLocation ) for vert in leaf.data.vertices:
v2 = bm.verts.new( endLocation ) verts.append([vert.co[0], vert.co[1], (vert.co[2]+ver-
e = bm.edges.new([v1,v2]) tOffset)])
bm.to_mesh(line) if len(verts)>3:
o = bpy.data.objects.new( name, line ) order = [0, 1, 3, 2]
bpy.data.collections[collection].objects.link(o) else:
bpy.context.view_layer.objects.active = o order =[ 0, 1, 2]
o.select_set(True) edges = [[order[i], order[i+1]] for i in range(len(verts)-1)]
o.modifiers.new(“Skin”, “SKIN”) lastEdge=[0,len(edges)-1]
o.modifiers.new(“Bevel”, “BEVEL”) edges.append(lastEdge)
bpy.context.object.modifiers[“Bevel”].width = radiusX/1.5 faces =[[]]
bpy.context.object.modifiers[“Bevel”].segments = 3 for i in range(len(verts)):
for v in o.data.skin_vertices[0].data: faces[0].append(order[i])
v.radius = radiusX, radiusY name = “leaf {}”.format(leafNumber)
64

--- Page 65 ---
#========= make border====
radiusX=0.005
radiusY=0.005
print(verts)
for i in range (len(verts)):
start = verts[order[i]]
if i == len(verts)-1:
end = verts[order[0]]
else:
end = verts[order[i+1]]
print(i)
frameName =”frame {}”.format(name)
makeLine(start, end, radiusX, radiusY,frameName, “leaf”)
mesh = bpy.data.meshes.new(name)
mesh.from_pydata(verts, edges, faces)
mesh.update()
o = bpy.data.objects.new(name, mesh)
bpy.data.collections[“leaf”].objects.link(o)
mod = o.modifiers.new(“Solidify”, ‘SOLIDIFY’)
mod.offset = 0
mod.thickness = 0.0002
deselect()
leafNumber+=1
#bpy.data.collections[“leafVert”].objects.unlink(leaf)
for obj in bpy.data.collections[“leaf”].objects:
if “frame” in obj.name:
obj.select_set(True)
print(obj.name)
bpy.context.view_layer.objects.active =o
setMat(“Brass”)
deselect()
else:
obj.select_set(True)
print(obj.name)
bpy.context.view_layer.objects.active =o
setMat(“Smudged Glass”)
deselect()
65

--- Page 66 ---
Python Script: Leaf Object Adder
import bpy, bmesh
import numpy as np
import math
def asSpherical(xyz):
#takes list xyz (single coord)
x = xyz[0]
y = xyz[1]
z = xyz[2]
r = np.sqrt(x*x + y*y + z*z)
theta = np.arccos(z/r)*180/ np.pi #to degrees
phi = np.arctan2(y,x)*180/ np.pi
return [r,theta,phi]
def makeLeaf(location, object, name):
sCo=asSpherical(location)
newLeaf= bpy.data.objects.new(name, bpy.data.objects[object].data)
newLeaf.location=location
distance = (location[0]**2+location[1]**2)**0.5
scalefac=(((1+distance)/5)**1.5)
newLeaf.scale=(scalefac**0.9, scalefac, scalefac)
rotation = (sCo[2]*(math.pi)/180)+np.pi/2
rotation2=(distance*np.pi)/32
newLeaf.rotation_euler=((math.pi/2)+rotation2,0,rotation)
bpy.data.collections[“leaf”].objects.link(newLeaf)
leafNum=1
for leaf in bpy.data.collections[“leafVert”].objects:
origin=len(leaf.data.vertices)-1
verts=[]
oX=leaf.data.vertices[origin].co[0]
oY=leaf.data.vertices[origin].co[1]
oZ=leaf.data.vertices[origin].co[2]
name=”leaf {}”.format(leafNum)
makeLeaf([oX, oY, oZ], “Kyte”, name)
leafNum+=1
66

--- Page 67 ---
Figure 43: Possible leaf shapes. Author’s Own 2022.
67

--- Page 68 ---
Outcomes and Potential Use
The creation of a Python script and contained become a key tool in biophilic architecture.
algorithm can generate a wide variety of
The methodology used to create this algorithm is
phyllotactic domes. These domes can be of
probably however, the most valuable outcome of
any size and dimension and thus can fulfil the
this project. Breaking down a natural form into
requirements of many designers wishing to add
its key geometric formulation and remaking it as
phyllotaxy to a structural form.
a buildable structure is an effective way to apply
The domes could become the roofing structure biomimicry to architecture. By following the steps
of buildings, such as the historic domes of of this project and applying the logic to other
cathedrals and mosques. They may also be areas of biophilia one can hope to create more
used as windows that transfer the plant-based tools to benefit the design world.
geometry to projected shadows.
Bridging the worlds of science and design is vital
The domes may most easily be constructed as to the progression of both paradigms and must be
stand-alone forms, proving shelter and refuge. pursued by all parties involved. Creating tools and
methodologies is merely one way of doing this.
The most important potential use for these
generated domes is experimentation of The following pages illustrate the variety of
neurological affect. Will these synthetic structures possible structures created by the algorithm.
provide the benefits often associated with natural
environments? Will the phyllotactic patterns be
physiologically resonant and encourage stress
recovery?
These questions and more should be answered
to determine the future of structures that
authentically mimic the geometry of nature.
If in line with the pre-existing research and thus
beneficial to those within the dome’s space,
the algorithm should be further developed and
68

--- Page 69 ---
69

--- Page 70 ---
70

--- Page 71 ---
71

--- Page 72 ---
72

--- Page 73 ---
73

--- Page 74 ---
74

--- Page 75 ---
75

--- Page 76 ---
76

--- Page 77 ---
77

--- Page 78 ---
Reflection
This project has provided problem-solving capabilities
a vast array of challenges that can be applied and
and learning experiences, transferred to other areas. The
leading to learning Python and ability to find the tools most
Blender and redeveloping and capable of solving problems
rekindling an understanding and implementing designs has
of mathematics long since been invaluable.
forgotten. By applying and
At times, however, I
connecting knowledge from
underestimated the time
several disciplines, I found
it would take to undertake
that my comprehension and
seemingly simple coding tasks.
depth of understanding of each
greatly improved throughout What I initially thought would
the semester. This enabled me take a few hours sometimes
to break down comprehensive, took days to configure, analyse
complex and sometimes and reconfigure.
alienating concepts and present It is important to note
them in a more palatable that while I have focused
and accessible form. The on developing tools and
combination of applications processes that could benefit
and tools, whilst being of high the general community and the
value in and of themselves, design world, there has also
also helped illuminate been a significant personal
methodologies of design and benefit. I have realised that
investigation. By connecting perseverance, determination,
with a sequence of different dedication and discipline
processes and the transition are critical attributes to
to and from each, I feel that I successfully completing a
have developed sophisticated project.
78

--- Page 79 ---
79

--- Page 80 ---
References
‘2017 Award Winner: Khoo the Effects on Mental Health of Design Journal, vol. 6, no. 4, pp.
Teck Puat Hospital | Living- Exposure to Optical Radiation’, 127–168.
Future.org’, viewed 20 March International Journal of
Cooper, R, Boyko, C &
2022, <https://living-future. Environmental Research and
Codinhoto, Ri 2009, ‘The effect
org/biophilic/case-studies/ Public Health, vol. 18, no. 4, pp.
of the physical environment
award-winner-khoo-teck-puat- 1–16.
on mental wellbeing’, Mental
hospital/>.
Blume, C, Garbazza, C & Capital and Wellbeing, no.
Abboushi, B, Elzeyadi, I, Taylor, Spitschan, M 2019, ‘Effects February 2014, pp. 967–1006.
R & Sereno, M 2019, ‘Fractals of light on human circadian
Dong, H & Qin, B 2017,
in architecture: The visual rhythms, sleep and mood’,
‘Exploring the link between
interest, preference, and mood Somnologie, vol. 23, no. 3.
neighborhood environment and
response to projected fractal
Bourke, P ‘Fractals, Chaos, Self mental wellbeing: A case study
light patterns in interior spaces’,
Similarity’, viewed 27 August in Beijing, China’, Landscape
Journal of Environmental
2021, <http://paulbourke.net/ and Urban Planning, vol. 164,
Psychology, vol. 61, pp. 57–70.
fractals/>. pp. 71–80.
Adler, I, Barabe, D & Jean, R V.
Bratman, GN, Hamilton, JP & Fattorini, S 2017, ‘James G.
1997, ‘A history of the study of
Daily, GC 2012, ‘The impacts of Sanderson, Stuart L. Pimm,
phyllotaxis’, Annals of Botany,
nature experience on human Patterns in Nature. The Analysis
vol. 80, no. 3, pp. 231–244.
cognitive function and mental of Species Co-occurrences,
Alexander, C 1999, ‘The health’, Annals of the New York The University of Chicago
Origins of Pattern Theory: The Academy of Sciences, vol. 1249, Press (2015), 205 pp. $45.00,
Future of the Theory, and the no. 1, pp. 118–136. ISBN: 978-0-226-29272-
Generation of a Living World’, 4 (hardcover)’, Biological
Browning, W, Ryan, C & Clancy,
IEEE Software, vol. 16, no. 5, pp. Conservation, vol. 206, p. 329.
J 2014, ‘14 Patterns of Biophilic
71–82.
Design’, Terrapin Bright Ferguson, KT & Evans, GW
Alexander, C & Davis, H 1981, Green,LLC, pp. 1–60. 2019, ‘The built environment
‘Beyond Humanism’, Journal of and mental health’,
Chou, PY, Denadai, R, Chen, SH,
Architectural Education, vol. 35, Encyclopedia of Environmental
Tseng, HJ, Hsu, CK, Wang, SW,
no. 1, pp. 18–24. Health, vol. 80, no. 4, pp.
Hallac, R, Chen, CH, Kane, AA &
465–469.
Alvarsson, JJ, Wiens, S & Lo, LJ 2019, ‘Identifying three-
Nilsson, ME 2010, ‘Stress dimensional facial fluctuating Fernández-Martínez, M &
recovery during exposure asymmetry in normal pediatric Sánchez-Granero, MA 2014,
to nature sound and individuals: A panel assessment ‘Fractal dimension for fractal
environmental noise’, outcome study of clinicians and structures’, Topology and its
International Journal of observers’, Journal of Clinical Applications, vol. 163, no. 1, pp.
Environmental Research and Medicine, vol. 8, no. 5. 93–111.
Public Health, vol. 7, no. 3, pp.
Coburn, A 2018, Gabora, L 2013, ‘Convergent
1036–1046.
‘Buildings, beauty, and the Evolution’, Brenner’s
Berman, MG, Stier, AJ & Akcelik, brain :PSYCHOLOGICAL Encyclopedia of Genetics:
GN 2019, ‘Environmental RESPONSES TO Second Edition, pp. 178–180.
neuroscience’, American ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN’,
Gabriel, R & Quillien, J 2019, ‘A
Psychologist, vol. 74, no. 9, pp. University of Cambridge, p. 242.
Search for Beauty/A Struggle
1039–1052.
Connellan, K, Gaardboe, M, with Complexity: Christopher
Bertani, DE, De Novellis, AMP, Riggs, D, Due, C, Reinschmidt, Alexander’, Urban Science, vol.
Farina, R, Latella, E, Meloni, M, A & Mustillo, L 2013, ‘Stressed 3, no. 2, p. 64.
Scala, C, Valeo, L, Galeazzi, GM spaces: Mental health
Gritzka, S, MacIntyre, TE, Dörfel,
& Ferrari, S 2021, ‘“Shedding and architecture’, Health
D, Baker-Blanc, JL & Calogiuri, G
Light on Light”: A Review on Environments Research and
2020, ‘The Effects of Workplace
80

--- Page 81 ---
Nature-Based Interventions Science, vol. 29, no. 9, pp. Architects’, viewed 20 March
on the Mental Health and 1632–1648. 2022, <https://saga.dk/
Well-Being of Employees: A projects/lunark>.
Jiang, B 2016, ‘A complex-
Systematic Review’, Frontiers in
network perspective on Ma, L, He, S & Lu, M 2021,
Psychiatry, vol. 0, p. 323.
Alexander’s wholeness’, Physica ‘A measurement of visual
Gullone, E 2002, ‘The Biophilia A: Statistical Mechanics and complexity for heterogeneity
Hypothesis and Life in the its Applications, vol. 463, pp. in the built environment based
21st Century: Increasing 475–484. on fractal dimension and its
Mental Health or Increasing application in two gardens’,
Joly, S & Schoen, DJ 2021,
Pathology?’, Journal of Fractal and Fractional, vol. 5,
‘Repeated evolution of a
Happiness Studies, vol. 1, no. 3, no. 4.
reproductive polyphenism in
pp. 293–322.
plants is strongly associated McEdward, LR 1995, ‘Evolution
Hileman, LC 2014, ‘Trends in with bilateral flower symmetry’, of pelagic direct development
flower symmetry evolution Current Biology, vol. 31, no. 7, in the starfish Pteraster
revealed through phylogenetic pp. 1515-1520.e3. tesselatus (Asteroidea:
and developmental genetic Velatida)’, Biological Journal of
Joye, Y 2007, ‘Fractal
advances’, Philosophical the Linnean Society, vol. 54, no.
architecture could be good for
Transactions of the Royal 4, pp. 299–327.
you’, Nexus Network Journal,
Society B: Biological Sciences,
vol. 9, no. 2, pp. 311–320. McMahan, EA & Estes, D 2015,
vol. 369, no. 1648.
‘The effect of contact with
Kaplan, S 1995, ‘The restorative
Horayangkura, V 2012, natural environments on
benefits of nature: Toward an
‘Incorporating Environment- positive and negative affect:
integrative framework’, Journal
Behavior Knowledge into the A meta-analysis’, Journal of
of Environmental Psychology,
Design Process: An Elusive Positive Psychology, vol. 10, no.
vol. 15, no. 3, pp. 169–182.
Challenge for Architects in the 6, pp. 507–519.
21st Century’, Procedia - Social Kellert, SR 2008, ‘Dimensions,
Mehaffy, MW 2019, ‘Assessing
and Behavioral Sciences, vol. Elements, and Attributes of
Alexander’s Later Contributions
50, no. July, pp. 30–41. Biophilic Design’, in Biophilic
to a Science of Cities’, Urban
Design: The Theory, Science
Howell, AJ, Dopko, RL, Science, vol. 3, no. 2, p. 59.
and Practice of Bringing
Passmore, HA & Buro, K
Buildings to Life, pp. 3–19. Mikiten, TM, Salingaros, NA &
2011, ‘Nature connectedness:
Yu, H-S 2000, ‘Pavements as
Associations with well-being ‘Kéré | Work’, viewed 20
Embodiments of Meaning for a
and mindfulness’, Personality March 2022, <https://www.
Fractal Mind’, Nexus Network
and Individual Differences, vol. kerearchitecture.com/work/
Journal, vol. 2, no. 1–2, pp.
51, no. 2, pp. 166–171. building/xylem>.
63–74.
Interface 2020, ‘Identifying the Li, C, Sun, C, Sun, M, Yuan, Y &
Moran, D 2019, ‘Back to nature?
14 patterns of biophilic design’, Li, P 2020, ‘Effects of brightness
Attention restoration theory
, pp. 1–6. levels on stress recovery when
and the restorative effects of
viewing a virtual reality forest
Jean, R V. 1990, ‘A synergic nature contact in prison’, Health
with simulated natural light’,
approach to plant pattern and Place, vol. 57, pp. 35–43.
Urban Forestry and Urban
generation’, Mathematical
Greening, vol. 56. Myers, OG 1996, ‘The Biophilia
Biosciences, vol. 98, no. 1, pp.
Hypothesis’, Environmental
13–47. Lima-De-Faria, A 1997, ‘The
Ethics, vol. 18, no. 3, pp.
atomic basis of biological
Jiang, B 2015, ‘Wholeness 327–330.
symmetry and periodicity’,
as a hierarchical graph to
BioSystems, vol. 43, no. 2, pp. Pazhouhanfar, M & Mustafa
capture the nature of space’,
115–135. Kamal, MS 2014, ‘Effect
International Journal of
of predictors of visual
Geographical Information ‘LUNARK - SAGA Space
preference as characteristics
81

--- Page 82 ---
of urban natural landscapes in Sanderson, JG & Pimm, SL benefits of biophilic theory to
increasing perceived restorative 2015, Patterns in Nature: hospital design’, City, Territory
potential’, Urban Forestry and The Analysis of Species Co- and Architecture, vol. 5, no. 1,
Urban Greening, vol. 13, no. 1, Occurrences,. pp. 1–9.
pp. 145–151.
Scopelliti, M, Carrus, G & Ulrich, RS 1983, ‘Aesthetic and
Pennybacker, MF, Shipman, PD Bonaiuto, M 2019, ‘Is it Really Affective Response to Natural
& Newell, AC 2015, ‘Phyllotaxis: Nature That Restores People? Environment’, Behavior and
Some progress, but a story far A Comparison With Historical the Natural Environment, pp.
from over’, Physica D: Nonlinear Sites With High Restorative 85–125.
Phenomena, vol. 306, pp. Potential’, Frontiers in
Westlund, S 2015, ‘Becoming
48–81. Psychology, vol. 0, no. JAN, p.
human again’: Exploring
2742.
Plawsky, JL 1993, ‘Transport connections between nature
in Branched Systems I Steady- Sng, Y, Ong, CK & Lai, YF 2018, and recovery from stress and
state Response’, Chemical ‘Approaches to outpatient post-traumatic distress’, Work,
Engineering Communications, pharmacy automation: a vol. 50, no. 1, pp. 161–174.
vol. 123, no. 1, pp. 71–86. systematic review’, European
Wiley, J 2022, ‘The Theory of
Journal of Hospital Pharmacy, p.
Pretty, J, Peacock, J, Sellens, M Biophilic Design’, , no. March.
ejhpharm-2017-001424.
& Griffin, M 2005, ‘The mental
Williams, F 2017, ‘Feel-good
and physical health outcomes Sternberg, EM & Wilson, MA
Fractals: From Ocean Waves to
of green exercise’, International 2006, ‘Neuroscience and
Jackson Pollock’s Art | Scribd’,
Journal of Environmental Architecture: Seeking Common
Aeon.
Health Research, vol. 15, no. 5, Ground’, Cell, vol. 127, no. 2, pp.
pp. 319–337. 239–242. Yao, W, Zhang, X & Gong, Q
2021, ‘The effect of exposure
Rasheed, M & Bajaj, C 2015, Takeuchi, H, Enzo, A &
to the natural environment
‘Highly Symmetric and Minamitani, H 2001, ‘Circadian
on stress reduction: A meta-
Congruently Tiled Meshes for rhythm changes in heart rate
analysis’, Urban Forestry &
Shells and Domes’, Procedia variability during chronic
Urban Greening, vol. 57, p.
Engineering, vol. 124, pp. sound stress’, Medical and
126932.
213–225. Biological Engineering and
Computing, vol. 39, no. 1. Yerbury, RM & Lukey, SJ 2021,
Reinhardt, D & Gola, EM 2022,
‘Human–animal interactions:
‘Law and order in plants – the ‘The Architect’s Perspective:
Expressions of wellbeing
origin and functional relevance Khoo Teck Puat Hospital -
through a “nature language”’,
of phyllotaxis’, Trends in Plant RMJM’, viewed 20 March 2022,
Animals, vol. 11, no. 4.
Science. <https://rmjm.com/the-
architects-perspective-khoo- Zaino, AA & Abbas, MY 2020,
Salingaros, NA 1999,
teck-puat-hospital/>. ‘Architectural Space Alters
‘Architecture, Patterns, and
the Expression of Gene
Mathematics’, Nexus Network Thompson Coon, J, Boddy, K,
that Regulate Physical and
Journal, vol. 1, no. 1–2, pp. Stein, K, Whear, R, Barton, J
Emotional Stress’, Asian Journal
75–86. & Depledge, MH 2011, ‘Does
of Environment-Behaviour
participating in physical
Salingaros, NA 2000, ‘The Studies, vol. 5, no. 16, pp. 1–19.
activity in outdoor natural
structure of pattern languages’,
environments have a greater Zhong, W, Schröder, T &
Architectural Research
effect on physical and mental Bekkering, J 2022, ‘Biophilic
Quarterly, vol. 4, no. 2, pp.
wellbeing than physical activity design in architecture and its
149–162.
indoors? A systematic review’, contributions to health, well-
Salingaros, NA 2012, ‘Fractal Environmental Science and being, and sustainability: A
Art and Architecture Reduce Technology, vol. 45, no. 5, pp. critical review’, Frontiers of
Physiological Stress’, Journal of 1761–1772. Architectural Research, vol. 11,
Biourbanism, vol. 2, pp. 11–28. no. 1, pp. 114–141
Totaforti, S 2018, ‘Applying the
82

--- Page 83 ---
83

--- Page 84 ---
Appendices
The following appendices contain original
experimentation that either preceded or occurred
parallel with the main detailed project. The sketches and
renders depicted were vital to developing the required
understanding of potential areas of research and enquiry.
The appendices also contain collages of key workings from
author’s notebook.
All renders and sketches are the author’s own.
84

--- Page 85 ---
85

--- Page 86 ---
86

--- Page 87 ---
Possible mechanisms for organically shaped structures
87

--- Page 88 ---
88

--- Page 89 ---
89

--- Page 90 ---
Experimentation with Flexible Material
This is a direct design response to answer questions so that it becomes a reflection of how the light usually
associated with the interaction with nature. A wall interacts with it.
composed of pillars laced with fabric allows for numerous,
The light passing through will also allow for lighting of
simultaneous interactions with the environment present
one side of the wall to be representative of the other with
on either side.
shadows and diffusion to match.
Air can pass through the cloth but not without friction.
The cloth being woven through the pillars has numerous
This friction causes movement in the cloth resulting in a
consequences. Firstly, it allows for relatively stable shape
dynamism of physical form,
and position whilst only preventing movement of the
The movement will affect how the material interacts with outer edges, allowing the inner waves to move in both the
light, causing it to reflect and/or diffract at different angles X and Y axis. The free movement will let any deformation
and amounts. dissipate throughout.
This light passing through the material will change the
colouration and also the aging and wearing of the material
90

--- Page 91 ---
91

--- Page 92 ---
92

--- Page 93 ---
93

--- Page 94 ---
94

--- Page 95 ---
95

--- Page 96 ---
96

--- Page 97 ---
97

--- Page 98 ---
Creating Natural Forms with Flexible Material
98

--- Page 99 ---
99

--- Page 100 ---
100

--- Page 101 ---
101

--- Page 102 ---
102

--- Page 103 ---
103

--- Page 104 ---
