Aesthetics of Nature
The natural world is composed mutation happened one This co-development shapes
of a vast array of living and by one, and the organisms each party to reflect their
non-living forms, created either changed slowly, with each neighbours as the ecosystem
by their evolved biology or by alteration potentially meaning pushes towards a stable state.
forces acting upon them by the cessation of a species— The complex symbiosis of
the environment (Fattorini this risky nature of evolution environment and organism
2017). These two systems are preferences systems that creates a system in which each
both intricately formed and require minimal support component is intricately linked,
structured in and of themselves. and energy whilst gaining following a profound biological
The growth of a living structure significant benefit (Adler, and physicochemical logic
is dictated by its genome and Barabe & Jean 1997). (Gabora 2013).
physicochemical interaction
This logic is fundamental to This system of logical
with the outside world (Gullone
understanding the patterns we connections and co-
2002). The non-living shaping
see in nature. The preferenced development is a significant
of the environment stems from
efficiency of formation factor separating natural
the interactions of forces and
encourages the development of and synthetic environments.
systems, such as the movement
growth systems and practices Buildings do not share the same
of water and air, changes in
that serve multiple functions - a intricate design responses to
temperature and interactions
tree’s branches’ growth pattern their environment, and there is
with living forms. This
will spread out and fill space, not a consistent logic tying all
perpetual cycle of interaction
maximising the interaction with formations together (Alexander
between components of the
air, water, and sunlight (Jean 1999).
environment converted the
1990). Often, a specific pattern
earth into the complex and There is even greater
will address the needs of many
beautiful design we see today dissonance when comparing
organisms. The distribution
(Sanderson & Pimm 2015). patterns and design logic
characteristics of phyllotaxis
between structures that differ
At the core of each complex (the arrangement of leaves
in scale. For nature however,
system and form is an around a plant stem) allow
foundational patterns are
organised and systematic array one simple growth pattern
present in both the minute
of patterns and interactions to spread all the leaves in a
and massive, such as fractal
- essentially the universe’s way that minimises overlap
developments, biological
programming. How organisms and maximises sun and water
symmetry and phyllotactic
grow depends on the structure exposure (Pennybacker,
divergence (Alexander & Davis
of their genome, which Shipman & Newell 2015).
1981).
is reliant on the chemical Consequentially it has been
interactions of its polymers . An evolutionarily preferenced and
organism’s growth is affected is exhibited by the vast majority
by changes in environmental of plants in one way or another.
factors, such as air pressure The evolution, growth and
and temperature alterations proliferation of an organism
(Gabora 2013). within an environment
also responds to the other
It is also essential to recognise
organisms it interacts with,
the incremental and procedural
both directly and indirectly.
process of evolution. Each
16