Fractals
Recursive and repeating patterns
are also consistently exhibited by
natural forms as a consequence
of the simplicity and efficiency
of their core programming
(Abboushi et al. 2019). Often,
these recursive patterns become
what are known as fractals,
creating a repetition of self-
similar components where each
step of the pattern has the same
relations as the last. This property
of self-similarity is prevalent
throughout nature as it is the
outcome of hyper-irrational
mathematical relations that allow
repeating structures to result in
high integrity structures (Plawsky
1993).
Exploration of these inherent
patterns and the psychology of
humans has shed light on the
importance of fractal structures
and their visual expressions (Joye fractal environments. This expresses a fractal dimension
2007). It seems the patterns non-optimal D can exacerbate in line with what resonates
resonate with human neurology, anxiety and depression. with humans and thus might
which encourages a positive Therefore, it seems reasonable explain its intrinsic appeal
interplay between emotional to note that harnessing (Williams 2017). There is
and sensory systems and fractal the use of fractal imagery also an increase in research
imagery. and structures within an suggesting using fractal
environment has been shown imagery in art therapy,
The unique qualities of fractal
to improve mental acuity and where the use of generative
patterns and geometries have
wellbeing (Ma, He & Lu 2021). algorithms can connect
been shown to have calming,
patients’ modern inclinations
almost anxiolytic effects on Research into the effects of
and their evolutionary
viewers (Salingaros 2012). fractal imagery has coincided
preferences (potentially
According to research, this is with other fractal-related
enhancing the therapeutic
because the relationship between investigations. It appears that
benefit) (Mikiten, Salingaros &
the fracticality of a pattern or the art of Jackson PolloFckra ctal Dimension (D)
Yu 2000).
shape and the psychological effect
of the viewer is related to the
fractal dimension of the structure
(D) (Fernández-Martínez &
Sánchez-Granero 2014). Humans
respond ideally when the D value
is between 1.3 and 1.5, regardless
of the shape of the structure
(Abboushi et al. 2019). The
prevalence of simple structures
in synthetic environments and
the increase in mental stress may
be due to being the antithesis of
xednI-tH
Figure 8: Key values and equations of fractal mathematics and psychological affect.
Author’s Own 2022.
Figure 9: Relation between fractal mathematics and visual appearance. Author’s Own
2022.
17