Together, these two connections between how elements of an environment interact with
natural stimuli and cognitive response illustrate each other and how their composition suggests
potential mechanisms for biophilic design’s a narrative and functional interplay (Mehaffy
ability to increase wellbeing and mental wellness. 2019).
What constitutes biophilic design and what This overarching interaction and the organisation
elements are essential appears to vary between (or lack thereof) is the fundamental basis of
practitioner and purpose. Environmental visual “naturalness” and adaptability (Jiang
consultancy firm Terrapin Bright Green 2015).
deconstructed biophilic design into fourteen
Further research into how components of
patterns, grouped into three main sections,
structures are organised within synthetic and
Nature in the Space, Natural Analogues and
natural systems illustrates the necessity for
Nature of the Space (see checklist below)
consistent logic when building environments if
(Browning, Ryan & Clancy 2014). This
naturalness is to be achieved (Jiang 2016).
categorisation serves as a useful tool for
designers within and outside the field, helping The movement of focus from typical biophilic
to create guidelines and identify areas for inclusion of natural elements to the logic
consideration. By creating the three main of design and construction connects with
groups, the value of both the synthetic and a major critique of the practice of biophilic
natural components of biophilic design becomes design, especially in architecture. If research is
apparent, promoting and suggesting a more highlighting the fundamental aesthetic patterns
thorough investigation into the construction that induce the benefits of nature, it would
of an environment. Many elements of biophilic stand to reason that these aesthetic patterns
design are challenged and evaluated by can be created synthetically (Salingaros 1999).
Christopher Alexander’s theory of natural Emphasis on the overarching, collectivising
structure, which dictates that buildings develop patterns of construction and design and its
a natural visual structure when the methods interaction with subconscious thought may
used to construct them follow the processes of however stand in opposition to much of biophilic
biological growth (Gabriel & Quillien 2019). design practice.
Christopher Alexander’s work further explores
Nature in Space Experience of Place
Visual connection with nature Organised complexity
Thermal and airflow variablity Prospect and refuge
Non-visual connection with nature Transitional spaces
Non-rhythmic sensory stimuli
Presence of water
Forms and Shapes
Dynamic and/or diffused Light
Biomorphy
Geomorphology
Indirect Experience of Nature
Biomimicry
Images
Materials
Patterns
Texture
Colour Sensory variability
Shapes + Forms Information richness
Information Richness Age/change/patina
Natural Geometries Central focal point
Simulated Natural Light and Air Patterned wholes
Biomimicry Transitional spaces
Figure 7: Author’s recreation of Terrapin Bright Green’s 14 Patterns of Biophilia.2022
13