Introduction
According to the branch of 2021). Structures with forms consistency of complexity,
evolutionary psychology similar to that of plants, and what are their shared
- the biophilia hypothesis, wallpapers and pictures with characteristics that benefit
we are drawn instinctively natural scenes or elements and our brains and bodies? By
to living things such as the audio recordings of natural answering these questions
sight of plants and the sound sounds appear to all have and discovering methods of
of birds (Myers 1996). The significant benefit, being shown recreating the core components
area of neuroaesthetics has to reduce blood pressure of natural structures, we
demonstrated many benefits of (Howell et al. 2011), decrease can move towards building
experiencing natural structures requirement for analgesia synthetic environments that
and environments. Additionally, (Totaforti 2018), and increase authentically replicate the
attention restoration theory mental acuity (Totaforti 2018). natural world.
suggests that nature captures
These positive health benefits To determine methods of
our attention even without
of nature have inspired an creating structures that
us having to focus directly
exploration and investigation of mimic the psychological and
on it. This in turn seems to
the application of natural forms physiological benefits of
recharge the mind and alleviate
in architecture. the natural environment, a
stress - similar to meditation
collation of key insights will
(Alvarsson, Wiens & Nilsson What is it about the shape and
be derived from literature
2010). Many experiments structure of plants and natural
focusing on neuroaesthetics,
have shown that this environments that provoke a
environmental neuroscience
unconscious interaction with restorative effect? What are the
and biophilia. Additionally, the
our environment is incredibly core components and attributes
application of botany-related
important to our overall of a natural scene? How is
mathematics will inform the
wellbeing and mental health, the lighting composed? How
development of a prototype
and has led to the development does the sound reverberate?
and will provide insights into
of the field of environmental What patterns are recurrent in
recreating valuable nature
neuroscience (Westlund 2015). nature?
inspired structures.
The benefits of nature seem to To understand the restorative
extend beyond the presence effects of specific natural forms,
of nature itself. More and it is important to first analyse
more studies are showing what forms and patterns are
that references to nature prevalent in nature and what
have benefit to the health and makes them distinctive. How do
wellbeing of those within a plants grow into their myriad
space (Yao, Zhang & Gong shapes? What creates their
4