Natural Patterns: Local Symmetry
Simple, small-scale symmetry is of many structures (Lima- These symmetries don’t only
incredibly prevalent throughout De-Faria 1997). Allowing for occur in living organisms.
natural structures, potentially higher uniformity of stacking or Snowflakes and bubbles
due to the algorithmically a more even balance. Would a and even planets seem to
growing forms reacting to horse with four legs on one side exhibit basic symmetry of
specific variables in specific be able to gallop? shape. This is usually due to
ways, plants, animals and other the fundamental nature and
Alternatively, symmetry may
organic life present many of mechanisms of physics and
just be the consequence of
their features rich with local chemistry, with forces pushing
the simplest algorithm taking
symmetry (Jean 1990). To have and pulling and reactive agents
preference in the evolutionary
one developmental procedure diffusing in specific patterns.
race. Having a cleaner,
cover two halves of a structure
simple, and more efficient What is important to note
has obvious benefits over
developmental pathway may however, is that local
having a unique procedure for
lead to fewer chances of small symmetries of nature
each. There would need to be
evolutionary errors ending a rarely result in a perfectly
large amounts of time, energy
genetic lineage. Maybe because symmetrical whole (Hileman
and mutations spent before
of the simplicity, developing 2014). The changes in the
a synergistic pair was found
symmetrical components and surrounding environment,
(Joly & Schoen 2021). This logic
forms was just the fastest way epigenetic changes, mutations,
expands even further for many
for an organism to become a growth errors and many
organisms throughout nature.
complex and comprehensive other factors may alter how
Iconically, a starfish’s “star” like
structure. By having changes in a structure develops. The
shape is due to the rotational
cellular growth driven by only a consequences are a more
symmetry of its legs (see right,
few positional metrics it allows adapted and functional form,
middle image) (McEdward
for more focus to be on how or one that’s misshapenness
1995).
and when to change (Chou et al. hinders performance,
In addition, local symmetry 2019). potentially impeding overall
may improve the functionality function.
18