Stress Reduction Theory
Environmental Recovery From
Neuroscience Stress
Attention Restoration Theory
Figure 5: SRT and ART as subsets of Environmental Neuroscience. Author’s Own
Research has demonstrated has spurned the development them in a refugial space that
the interplay between the of two theories of stress provides “soft fascination”
built environment and mediation – Attention (Pazhouhanfar & Mustafa
mental restoration (Gritzka Restoration Theory (ART) and Kamal 2014).
et al. 2020). By incorporating Stress Reduction Theory (SRT)
Stress Reduction Theory
elements such as trees, water (Scopelliti, Carrus & Bonaiuto
focuses on the lower
and natural landscapes, 2019). Both theories help to
stimulation of natural
synthetic environments explain how natural and built
environments in relation
were indicated to improve environments can both be
to the synthetic. This lower
psychophysiological recovery detrimental and beneficial to
stimulation is due to the
from experimental and the well-being of an individual,
fact that human cognition
naturalistic stressor exposure especially when exposed to
developed to process the
(Alvarsson, Wiens & Nilsson external stressors.
natural and thus requires less
2010). In addition, views of
Attention Restoration effort to do so. The reduced
nature, landscape paintings
Theory suggests that natural effort results in less strain
and indoor plants were
environments can reduce and thus increased ability to
also connected to enhanced
mental fatigue and increase recover from previous stressors
comfort, mental acuity, and
concentration by providing (Pazhouhanfar & Mustafa
positive affect. Several other
stimuli more harmonious with Kamal 2014).
studies also demonstrated how
the brain’s sensory processing
certain non-natural structures Both of these theories have
(Moran 2019). This lower
(such as those that captivate been supported by evidence
effort processing allows for the
and support curiosity) can that the presence of shared
neurological areas associated
positively affect the restorative gardens, park areas and natural
with concentration to recover.
process and significantly refuges improve mental and
The natural environments
improve wellbeing. physiological wellbeing (Dong
are required to separate the
& Qin 2017).
The connection between individual from where they
environment and wellbeing were stressed and immerse
10