Buildings, Brain, and Behavior
How does the built environment affect wellbeing?
In the modern era, people spend most of
their lives inside buildings. The design of Firmitas
these buildings can have a large impact
(Strength)
on the mood, behaviour, and health of the
inhabitants (International Living Future
Institute 2018). This may be due to many
factors such as safety and function. It is
becoming more apparent however, that
architectural and design aesthetics play an
important role in this psychological and
Architectural
physiological effect (Gullone 2002).
Design
Over the past decade, researchers have
begun to explore the interconnectedness
of the built structure and the neurology of
those within. They have provided much- Utilitas Venustas
needed insight into how architecture (Functionality) (Aesthetics)
engages multiple sensory networks and
how this can lead to motor and emotional
responses (Berman, Stier & Akcelik 2019).
Even if a particular building fulfills its
functional requirements it may however
Vitruviam Triad
impede the functioning of people who
work or live in that space (Gritzka et al. Figure 2: The Vitruvian Triad. Author’s Own 2022
2020). This illuminates the hypocrisy
of many workspaces, designed to be
utilitarian and space-efficient in the hope of
increasing the productivity of its workers, one of the three core dimensions of architectural design
but consequentially reducing their mental of at least equal value to its structural stability and
and physical performance, negating any functionality (see above) (Coburn 2018). Other ancient
potential benefit (Zaino & Abbas 2020). cultures throughout history have also understood this,
with Chinese feng shui and Indian vaastru shastra
The idea that a structure’s aesthetics are of
offering alternatives to creating cohesion and harmony
value was not previously unheard of. Two
within synthetic environments (Mak & Thomas Ng,
thousand years ago the Roman architect
2005; Patra, 2009).
Vitruvius historically crowned beauty as
Environment Senses Processing Physiology
Figure 3: The interconnections between the environment and neurophysiology.
Author’s Own 2022
8