Amanda Levete’s MPavillion (2015) is constructed of over forty
fibreglass petals mounted on ninety five carbon fibre stalks. This
array creates a forrest of dappled shade and diffused light. The light
carbon fibre posts allow enough movement for the structure to sway
in the wind and move the rounded organic shadows around the space
further increasing the dynamics of the space’s lighting.
This structure emphasises the ability of synthetic material to emulate
nature and provoke the sense of a cohesive natural environment.
Without attempting to directly mimic the aesthetics of trees, this
pavilion expertly interacts with the sunlight and space to recreate the
feeling of a forest and thus is a great example of visually connecting
with nature
Designed to evoke a conception of flesh, NEON’s Skin critiques
the unnatural and anti-humanistic forms that dominate modern
architecture by presenting an extreme antithesis. A woven elastic
structure is suspended on a frame with a single opening. When the
viewer enters, the shape and structure deform around them, reacting
to their weight and movement. This disorients the participant,
blurring the boundary between artwork and body.
An extreme experimentation of form, Skin shows how reactivity to
occupation as well as a patterned whole can create a naturalistic
structure. The constant shifting of shape and space due to interaction
makes this structure seem alive.
The 2019 NEON Shiver House is a contemporary Finnish Hut
(mökki) with a roof composed of 600 counterweighted shingles.
These shingles dynamically move on supporting axles in response
to the direction and velocity of the wind. This movement alters the
obstruction of light and this creates an environment of naturally
dynamic light, elevating the otherwise simple shape in a naturally
complex environment.
This utilization of environmental reactivity creates a space that has
the ability to connect those within to the outside environment in a
manner which aims to provoke a deeper connection.
23