Figure 26: Variation of lattice domes from Frank M.J. Van der Linden’s Patterns for Domes 2022
domes points. so on. The next line would be would display what each array
point 2 connected to point 23... of curves would look like (see
The subset of points, being
eventually ending with a line left). The initial creation of
relatively even, would also
beginning at point 21. this tool was within Blender’s
need to not overlap with each
geometry nodes function.
other so as to create one half of This sequence creates almost
the lamella dome arches. parallel arches, fulfilling half of Making each curve array
the lamella dome’s needs. The visual highlighted two novel
From this logic, the curved
other half of the lines can be insights. Firstly, the steepness
connection of points could
created using the same process and direction of the potential
be created by creating curves
with a different denominator. curves vary widely, and
based off a denominator of the
secondly, each useful subset
point number and have the
of points are either Fibonacci
modulo dictate the connection
Numbers or multiples of
of these points. This would
Fibonacci Numbers.
result in every Nth point being
connected together, creating The second discovery was both
the curve (N->Nx)*point surprising and reassuring, as
number. If this was then it solidified the maintenance
repeated N times around the of the core geometry and
dome with each iteration also confirmed that the
adding one position, then you mathematics used to create the
will end up with N number tools was correct.
of lines connecting every Nth Not all subsets of points will
Now that these curves had
point. work however, as the dome,
been discovered, combinations
to function, needs to remain
As an example, if you were were needed to be assessed to
hollow with no lines crossing
to connect every 21st line, determine functional pairs as
the inner area. Finding a useful
you would need 21 lines, well as a method of creating a
set of numbers to form the
with the first beginning with generative algorithm.
dome required the formation
point 1 connecting to point
of a generative algorithm that The following pages will
22 connecting to point 43 and
37