Biophilia and Neuroscience
Biophilia
The environments which facilitate optimum
wellbeing and mental ability seem to be those
which reproduce and present the mathematical Love of Life
and structural properties and relations of those
which encompassed ancestral humanity. As such,
the core aspects of the environments which Sustaining Life Positive
facilitated the development of homosapiens may from Threats Integration with
still be needed for ideal cognitive and emotional
of Death Eachother
function, even in today’s hyper-synthetic world
(Kellert, 2008).
Innate Tendancy to Focus on Life
Furthermore, analysis of the mathematical
composition of nature has shown insight into and Lifelike Processes
what forms an ideal environment. Mimicking the
key components and relations of natural forms Figure 6: Biophilic Definition. Author’s Own 2022.
can bring the natural elements into otherwise
purely synthetic environments (Salingaros 2012).
These mathematical compositions and patterns
have a direct influence on the neurology of the area in a position in which they must adopt what
experiencer, potentially though the modulation of Richard P. Feynman referred to as a ‘satisfactory
pleasure-regulating opioid receptors (Biederman philosophy of ignorance’. A realisation that whilst
and Vessel 2006). humbling, has facilitated enormous progress.
Biophilic design, especially within the Like many other complex areas, the answer
architectural space, seeks to reconnect modern probably does not lie in a direct and linear
society to the natural world. This goal however interrogation of the problems but instead in a
has been hindered by numerous challenges both multifaceted and multidirectional inquisition into
internal and external to the design community the intricacies of what biophilic design could be
(Kellert 2008). The first and potential core issue and how it may function.
appears to be a lack of clarity of the specific aim Neuroscience research has shown a direct
of biophilic design (Zhong, Schröder & Bekkering connection between the shapes and forms
2022). What does it mean to reconnect modern of a biophilic or natural space and the visual
society to the natural world? To answer this, firstly processing areas of the human brain (Bratman,
there needs to be a deep understanding of how Hamilton & Daily 2012). The specific curvilinear
humans evolved to connect with nature. patterns of the stimuli appear to activate
It is only then that adjustments can then be specialised neuronal systems that may be
made based on the highlighted differences present to identify resources and environments
between then and now. Once variances have that facilitate survival and reproduction. This
been identified, precise mechanisms must be ingrained value of aesthetics has been noted in
considered to ensure the responses are not several studies, whereby respondents report a
misguided or vague. For example to identify the sense of order and feelings of visual ease after
mechanisms by which humans interact with the viewing (Sternberg & Wilson 2006).
natural and synthetic worlds, you will need to Another observed entangling of visual stimuli
understand the mechanisms of human physiology and cognitive behaviour has been the direct but
and psychology so that any manipulation of abstract eliciting of visual memory. The organised
the human-environment paradigm will not be complexity of the natural patterns appears to
detrimental. This, though becoming increasingly provoke the viewer to search through their
complex already, is only the beginning as it is also memory in hopes of identifying novel stimuli.
important to consider how modern society is This searching is the foundation of intrigue and
formed, how people currently live and what the provokes mental positive feedback and feelings of
current state of design is. beauty and joy.
This puts designers and scientists within the
12