Design Methodology
Following the initial review of the tool, initial experimentation The geometry nodes created
literature and interrogation of of form included sketches large compilations of potential
biophilic design and current and 3D modelling along with core structures such as point
practices, it seemed most associated mathematics and distribution and curve specifics
appropriate to delve deeper coding. The experiments led which were then used to fine-
into botanical mathematics to the identification of critical tune the more formalised code.
and the geometry of nature process steps for generating
As both the geometry node
to develop more significant a dome-like structure that
feature and Python script
insights into how synthetic expresses the geometry of
were interfaced within
structures could authentically phyllotaxy.
Blender, the outputs could be
mimic natural forms.
The first step in the quickly rendered and their
As much of the research process was identifying aesthetics assessed to guide the
related to biophilia attributes the mathematics required development process further.
a high value to this geometry, for generating phyllotactic
Additionally, any issues with
it seemed logical to create points. Secondly, it was vital
the foundational mathematics
core structures of a built to transform the points
became immediately
environment that express into an aesthetic structure
apparent, which indicated
the aesthetics detailed in through a series of connecting
the requirement for further
the research, principally joints. Finally, using the 3D
avenues of exploration and
the detailed patterns and modelling program Blender,
refinement.
associated visual relations. It the mathematics were
became apparent, however, that translated into the parametric
authentically recreating natural geometry nodes feature and a
patterns required an advanced Python script run in Blender’s
level of mathematic capability, embedded Python editor.
which at times was alienating.
These two functions were
Addressing the knowledge
fundamental to the iterative
gap led to the development of
process of the creation of a
a tool comprising accessible
generative algorithm. The
algorithms to successfully
geometry nodes facilitated
and authentically combine
quick visualisation of
the properties of nature into
mathematic relations and
a synthetic space – a seamless
algorithm functions, whilst
connection between science
the Python code allowed for
and design.
more specific and sophisticated
To organically illustrate and generation.
facilitate the development of
24