Creation of a Phyllotactic Dome Part 2:
Creating a latticed dome with phyllotactic points
Figure 25: Lattice Structure Generation in Python. Author’s Own 2022.
Formation of the spiral dome and less regular domes being point will have a unique
structures, as well as the established. From investigation distance from the center. This
phyllotactic roofing, indicated into how these lattices are will also mean that the first
that there was a potential formed, both ideologically segment of each parabola will
lattice structure that would be and mathematically, it became vary greatly as the distance of
able to connect the phyllotactic apparent that a variation of a each lines first point will be
points together. This lamella dome was needed. further away from the center
framework could then support than the last. The order of the
This dome is primarily
the display of other aesthetic lines, from shortest to longest
composed of overlapping
features in a plant-like manner. first segment will also appear
parallel arches, and is a
irregular as each line is being
To explore this concept, primary method of connecting
formed 137.5 degrees from the
research into the structure non-linear points in a dome. It
previous.
of other lattice domes such also as a default has geometry
as Buckminster Fuller’s aesthetically similar to These issues required the
geodesic domes was vital. phyllotactic structures. The creation of an algorithm
The non repeating, non- curves of each arch can be capable of linking each point
euclidean geometry needed segmented into a series of in overlapping parabolas that
for the phyllotactic points was straight components if needed are unique and in line with the
unfortunately incompatible as long as the point of joining wanted phyllotactic geometry.
with the structural logic behind remains at the intersection of
If the needed curves have to
the geodesic domes as no the curve, thus allowing for an
connect through the points
repeating shape would be able easier manufacture.
distributed on the dome and
to connect the needed locations
The parabolas usually used the curves are approximately
Geodesic domes are not the to create lamella domes are evenly distributed around
only lattice domes possible regular and parallel which the dome then the curves
however (see image above), is not possible with the themselves will need to be
with other more complex phyllotactic pattern as each composed of a subset of the
36