Biophilic Design Precedents
The Khoo Teck Puat Hospital, located in Yishun, Singapore, was
designed utilising many aspects of biophilia. The structure is covered
in a multitude of different plans and contains large green areas with
waterfalls and grottos (‘The Architect’s Perspective: Khoo Teck Puat
Hospital - RMJM’ 2010).
The complex also attempts to direct the natural light, creating a
diffused luminescence throughout whilst also reducing direct glare.
The building’s walls house fins that channel wind into the building,
potentially increasing the airflow up to 30%. Solar panels also
power large fans to further enhance air flow in public areas. Air is
circulated from the cooler, inner courtyards to the rest of the hospital,
minimising cooling loads (‘2017 Award Winner: Khoo Teck Puat
Hospital | Living-Future.org’ 2017).
Ethimo and Marco Lavit collaborated on wellbeing focused reading
lounges that aim to provide a natural dialogue between person and
space (‘PROJECTS — Atelier LAVIT’ 2021). The array of slates create
a shifting light and filters the perception of the outside environment.
Created as a place to rest, meditate and relax, the reading nest forms
a protective cocoon around its inhabitants.
The huts are movable and unfixed, standing 320cm tall and 300cm
wide allowing them to be placed in optimum positions in response to
seasonal and functional requirements.
These structures use natural, tactile materials and allow for a refuge
whilst still connecting with the environment. The parallel, sharp lines
however anchor the structure with a synthetic unnatural aesthetic.
2022 Pritzker Prize Laureate Francis Kéré designed Xylem to visually
emulate the cellular structure of a tree (‘Kéré | Work’ 2022).
The carved wooden seating is asymmetrically and obscurely arranged
so that visitors are able to sit and view both outwards and inwards at
any angle.
This is a clear example of a biophilic natural reference and use of
natural materials, addressing many of the 14 Patterns of Biophilia.
The structure however remains aesthetically synthetic with a
prevalence of repetitive Euclidean geometry. This makes Xylem a
great example of how natural components and reference may not be
enough to create a natural seeming structure and in turn highlights
the interplay between patterns of scale and representation of growth.
22