Phyllotaxis
In botany, phyllotaxis (from Ancient Greek phúllon ‘leaf’, and táxis ‘arrangement’) or
phyllotaxy is the arrangement of leaves on a plant stem. Phyllotactic spirals form a distinctive
class of patterns in nature (Reinhardt & Gola 2022).
The structures of nature are amongst designers and plant morphogenesis. The
often composed of simple mathematicians. dynamic nature of plant-organ
repeating patterns that evolved development is inherently
It is possible to generate
to achieve functional goals. The linked to the patterning
other number sets using
patterned formation of plant process, with researchers
similar rules to the Fibonacci
organs around a central axis suggesting many logical
Sequence by adding the
-phyllotaxis- is an example that reasons for the precise pattern
preceding two numbers in a
has intrigued and perplexed of phyllotaxy (Richards 2013).
group to create the next. Some
biologists and mathematicians
of these sequences are crucial Rather than constructing
since as early as 285BC (Adler,
to studying phyllotaxis, such an embryonic plan, plants
Barabe & Jean 1997).
as [1, 3, 4, 7, 11, …] and [2, 5, primarily produce their organs
Pliny (23 A.D.–79 A.D.), in his 7, 12, …]. Most importantly, procedurally throughout their
Natural History, describes the the Golden Number (τ)- lives. This system of growth,
orpine plant as ‘a ramose, hairy equivalent to [((sqrt(5)+1)/2] patterns the plant’s body in
plant with five or six leaves - related to the Fibonacci phyllotactic spirals encouraging
at regular intervals, arranged Sequence by the formula of specific end structures. The
circularly around the branches’ limFk+1/Fk = τ. This relation particular angle expressed is
(Adler, Barabe & Jean 1997). between phyllotaxis and the likely related to conditions
Fibonacci Sequence clearly when the pattern is first
A millennia later, the
parallels the number of spirals established (Douady & Couder,
mathematician Leonardo
in plants such as daisies 1992; Smith et al., 2006).
Fibonacci of Pisa’s (1175–
following the sequence. The
1240) book, Liber Abaci Of note, current research
angle of divergence between
(1202), provided solutions to understanding indicates that it
consecutive growth on a plant
the issue of rabbit population may also be important to focus
spiral (genetic spiral) is also
growth. To illustrate the on why plants preference spiral
generally around 137.5 degrees
progression of the population, phyllotaxy instead of why they
[ 360 degrees x limF2k+1/Fk ]
Fibonacci developed the specifically exhibit rotations
or [360 degrees / τ ].
sequence [ 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, of 137.5 degrees (Reinhardt &
21, …, Fk, Fk+1, …] where The study of phyllotaxy has Gola 2022).
each term after the second is significantly developed over
the sum of the two preceding the past century with the
it, and Fk is the kth term of involvement and inclusion of
the sequence (Adler, Barabe many areas of mathematics,
& Jean 1997). This sequence including analytic and
of numbers is the Fibonacci hyperbolic geometry assisting
Sequence and is famous those who study and research
20