--- Page 1 ---
C H A T
COMPUTATIONALLY HUMANISED AUDIO TO TEXT
ALEXANDER EINODER -S3866647
1

--- Page 2 ---
Table of Contents
5 Introduction
6 Precedents
8 Language Research
14
Typography
18 Message Format
20 Print Prototype
22 Technology
30
Bodystorming
32
Storyboard
2

--- Page 3 ---
34 Physical Structure
-Initial Sketches
38 Physical Structure
-Final Sketches
40 Physical Structure
-Renders
48
Physical Prototype
52 Programming CHAT
60 Contribution
61 Reflection
62
References
3

--- Page 4 ---
f
Ali Einoder
s3866647
4

--- Page 5 ---
f
I N T RODUC T ION
The ambiguity and detached nature of written text has become a burden of
the modern era. Constant conflict is created both directly and indirectly by a
lack of many human qualities in text. The inability to assess the non-verbal
qualities of the communication leaves the reader without the true sense of the
emotional, human qualities of the author (James 2017). This in turn can lead the
reader to respond and act in a manner which may contradict the real-world, face-
to-face reaction they would have if witnessing the author speak this text.
Through computationally processing the spoken word, the CHAT team aims
to provide insight into potential ways written text can evolve to become a truer
representation of spoken language.
How does the medium in which the text is viewed affect the reader's emotional
connection to the speech? If the text is formed into a physical artifact will the
reader attribute different emotional qualities to the text? How can the typography
be altered to represent the nonverbal aspects of human speech?
These questions and more were explored through research and experimentations
over the course of the semester, resulting in the development of CHAT - a
device which computationally humanises typography through audio to text
translation. Using technologies such as speech to text, electromagnetic field
recording and audio analysis, the team mapped non-verbal language to the textual
representation of the verbal. This was then built into a zoomorphically designed
object that prints these messages (along with an image of the sender) on thermal
paper to create a timeline of conversation that now occupies the physical world as
a receipt of the interaction.
We hope that this device illustrates the potential for further development in the
text-based world, especially given the move to a greater online presence.
5

--- Page 6 ---
6

--- Page 7 ---
P R E C E DE N T S
LITTLE PRINTER
BERG
2012
Little Printer was a small thermal printer that was connected to the internet
and able to print out web articles, social content, and certain images. This
printer used Berg’s cloud infrastructure to organize content and format it to
be printed from the thermal printer (Nord Projects n.d.).
After Berg closed their servers, this project was resuscitated by Nord Projects and
was given the ability to connect to many people who can send content directly to
a printer. It was also given the ability to print images sent from a phone after an
Atkinson Dithering process was applied to allow for 1bit printing.
PROSODIC FONT
TARA MICHELLE GRABER ROSENBERGER
1998
This thesis details the issues with written text in comparison to the spoken
word. Specifically focussing on the prosody of language and its lack of
representation in writing. It aims to create a method of converting the
spoken word into a moving font that illustrates how a speaker said the words that
are being presented (Rosenberger & MacNeil 1999).
By using computationally derived values from speech analysis, the author dictated
the creation of a new font that is systematically constructed, letter by letter using a
variation in four key components of the letters.
ETCH-A-SKETCH THEREMIN
LOOK MUM NO COMPUTER
2019
The youtuber/inventor Sam Battle, under his moniker LOOK MUM NO
COMPUTER, used an amalgamation of vintage audio test equipment, a
Moog Etherwave theremin and a vintage scientific X-Y plotter to create a
hands-free drawing device that resembles an Etch-a-Sketch (Battle 2019).
The Bruel and Kjaer frequency analyser receives the audio from the theremin and
converts it into two signals, one for pitch and one for amplitude. These two signals
are sent via control voltage to the X-Y plotter which draws a line on paper, moving
in response to the X-Y commands it receives via the control voltage.
7

--- Page 8 ---
L A N G U A G E
R E S E A R C H
As time progresses, society spends more and more time online.
An existence inundated with text based language. Text that in its
basis has been mostly unchanged for hundreds of years (Ferrara,
Brunner & Whittemore 1991).
This text has served as an efficient way of expressing ideas and
information, however when taken at face-value it can lead to
misunderstandings and conflict (Mehndiratta, Sachdeva & Soni
2017). This may be due to the lack of many nonverbal components of
communication that help to frame and contextualise spoken language
(Bryant & Fox Tree 2005).
When communicating online it can be excessively complicated to deduce
the tone of the speaker. Is a comment offensive or humorously sarcastic?
Is someone joking in a self-depreciating manner or do they need help? Is
the commenter saying something tongue-in-cheek or phrasing a question
rhetorically?
In spoken language, these aspects can be conveyed by altering the way
in which the sounds/syllables are spoken. Is it possible to translate
this concept to digitally created text? If so, what would be the rules and
representation of these inflections (Goulart et al. 2020)?
8

--- Page 9 ---
V E R B A L
C O M M U N I C A T I O N
The structure of linguistics can
be broken down into four main
categories: grammar; discourse; style;
and, lexicon (Key 2011).
Grammar is the formation and composition
of sounds, words, phrases, and sentences
that make up a given language (Hewes 1992).
Discourse is the social practice of language,
where the arrangement of ideas and phrases
can set the genre and meaning of the speech
(Toolan 2007).
The discourse and grammar of a language
can adapt for specific purposes and practices
such as changing from a casual to a formal
dialogue (Shany-Ur et al. 2012) . These
formations of language - known as registers
– are an important part of communication
as they allow a person to assimilate to their
environment and further encourage group
identity (Goulart et al. 2020).
The lexicon of a language is the internal
dictionary that a person has to form their
communications (Rheindorf & Wodak 2019).
It is composed of the known words as well as
the additional structures such as prefixes and
suffixes.
The style (or stylistics) is the complex
intricacies of the formation of sentences and
other dialogue aspects. It is what creates
the emotional tones such as satire, rhetoric,
or irony (Cheang & Pell 2008). It varies
between person and person and is what gives
a person’s linguistics their personality.
9

--- Page 10 ---
N O N - V E R B A L
C O M M U N I C A T I O N
The ways in which a person moves
and uses their body can convey
and communicate emotions and
information (Marmpena, Lim & Dahl
2018).
The meaning and intentions of speech
can vary heavily based on aspects such as
eye contact, posture, gestures, and other
forms of body language (Kleinke 1986). In
addition to these actions, communication
can also be further modulated and
expanded with alterations in distance (also
known as proxemics), interactions with
objects and the environment, and the use
of touch (haptics)(Pennycook 1985).
The speech itself also has within it key
aspects of non-verbal communication.
Non-verbal voice aspects (paralanguage)
as well as the use of time (chronemics)
allow for the spacing of words, expression
of thought processes, and provision of
insight on the level of consideration of the
speaker (Walther & Tidwell 1995).
Paralanguage is an incredibly important
part of speech (James 2017). By altering
the pitch, volume, and intonation the
user can add depth to the meaning of the
words used in conversation. The use of
paralanguage can be both conscious and
subconscious and can even exist within
handwriting and sign language in an
altered form (Tsonos & Kouroupetroglou
2008).
10

--- Page 11 ---
The prosodic features of language can shape
the words and sentences, altering their
meaning and importance to the listener
(Hunston 2007). By altering the rhythm and
stressing of syllables the communicator can
alter the tone of the speech, incorporating
emotion or contextual elements such as
sarcasm or focus (Cheang & Pell 2008;
Mehndiratta, Sachdeva & Soni 2017).
Gestural actions differ from other physical
forms of nonverbal communication. They
are a means of conveying a wide variety
of information and feelings, allowing
movements of the body to communicate
their own messages or assist verbal speech
- emphasising and modifying the meaning
(Iverson & Goldin-Meadow 2005).
11

--- Page 12 ---
12

--- Page 13 ---
W R I T T E N
L A N G U A G E
Aw ritten language (or literary language), through representative of
the spoken language, can differ quite significantly (Toolan 2007).
It is limited to the standardised symbols that represent sounds
and information. In most cases written language has focused on specific
registers and can even exist as a separate dialect to spoken language
(Ferrara, Brunner & Whittemore 1991).
Language is standardised to allow for a shared meaning of the symbols
and formation. This is to maximise the cohesiveness of a language within
a community and to minimise misunderstandings in dialogue. The
standardisation involves fixing the orthography, grammar, and dictionary.
This can help to enforce cultural identity and allow for the transference of
information accurately to a larger quantity of people over a greater period
(Wang et al. 2019).
Written language primarily represents the phonemic structure of speech,
with the composition of symbols representing the core sounds of syllables
and words. There is also an inclusion of symbols that alter the grammar and
punctuation of the language (Luangrath, Peck & Barger 2017).
Written language, especially in digital form is limited to the standardisation
of its structure. As the form of the symbols (in their shape and distribution)
have been allocated their near-fixed meaning and orthography, the
medium in which they are presented highlight and focus only on these
standardisations (Jensen 2014). This has led to the literary language
being merely a representation of the strictly verbal component of spoken
language. And even then, it in many cases exists with a separate array of
registers and styles (Luangrath, Peck & Barger 2017).
These components of language, as stated before, are merely only
components of a larger system of communication integral to human
interaction.
13

--- Page 14 ---
14

--- Page 15 ---
T Y P O G R A P H Y
The way written language is presented can alter the way it is interacted with (Tsonos
& Kouroupetroglou 2008). The formation of the text, in its shape and size and
distribution can make the reader attribute different emotions to the text itself . It
may also affect the readability of the text. In some ways it can be tied to the concept of a
register in that it can shift the sociolinguistic tone and genre of the communication.
The shape of the text, such as the intricacies that make up a particular font, can infer
certain characteristics, giving the text itself a unique voice (Keyes 1993). Certain fonts
can also reference previously expressed identities such as those from history or pop
culture (Spitzmüller 2019).
These fonts can then be presented with many variations, which include alterations to the
proportions of the letters/symbols as well as the spacing, relative size and weight of the
text(Castro et al. 2019).
The arrangement of the text within the medium itself may also influence the reader,
whether through overcrowding a page or having it aligned in an obscure manner (Tsonos
& Kouroupetroglou 2008).
15

--- Page 16 ---
T Y P O G R A P H Y
E X P E R I M E N T S
Typography may have the means of representing
non-verbal language through the alterations in
shape and size. To assess the posibilities of the
project, it was key to visualise how specific typographical
changes affect the emotional context of the language as
well as the representation of oral performance.
Which text looks like it was said slower?
Which text looks like it was said slower?
Which text looks like it was said slower?
Which text looks like it was said slower?
Which text looks like it was said slower?
Which text looks like it was said slower?
W h i c h t e x t l o o k s l i k e i t w a s s a i d s l o w e r ?
W h i c h t e x t l o o k s l i k e i t w a s s a i d s l o w e r ?
Which text looks louder? Which text looks louder?
WWhhiicchh tteexxtt llooookkss lloouuddeerr?? Which text looks louder?
WWhhiicchh tteexxtt llooookkss lloouuddeerr?? Which text looks louder?
WWhhiicchh tteexxtt llooookkss lloouuddeerr?? Which text looks louder?
Which text looks louder? How does the alteration in word height
change the way in which we view the
WHICH TEXT LOOKS LOUDER?
movement of the speaker? Perhaps
Which text looks louder? changing the height of the text will alter the
WHICH TEXT LOOKS LOUDER?
movement.
Which text looks louder? Maybe changing how much the text leans
will make the text seem like it was spoken
WHICH TEXT LOOKS LOUDER?
from a moving speaker.
16

--- Page 17 ---
If we combine an array of typographical
changes on a per word basis, would it affect how we
imagine the voice of the speaker? Will there be
added tone text?
an and personality to the
17

--- Page 18 ---
M E S S A G E F O R M A T
How should these concepts be presented?
The message itself is obviously For the final artifact to become a
of key importance. However, full representation of the message,
the medium in which it is it will include the author's name
presented also plays a large role. and the time and date sent.
How differently it feels to read from
A printed form of this layout leaves
a book than a phone. Or even on
a long strip of material that acts as
different forms of paper.
a receipt of a message. To double
To remove the distration of down on this line of thought, the
competing media and focus the message should also be printed on
user on the text as an artifact itself, thermal reciept paper.
it could be advantageous to have
This use of a thermal printer
the created messages be displayed
will have the benefit of novelty
in printed form.
and an iconic experience as the
It was also decided that having printing has an audible sound. The
a printed form that is narrow printouts require no ink and the
and long would highlight the rolls of paper will last for many
temporal relation to long and short messages.
messages. It is also referential
The messages will also remain
to classic digital message
linked until torn, forming a
presentations such as Facebook
timeline of conversation which
messages and text messages.
can in turn enhance the emotional
To aid the text and to increase the significance of the artifact.
emotional connection between
messagers, an image of the sender
should be present at the top of the
message. This allows the recipient
to see the sender's face and have
it instantly associated with the
message that is sent.
18

--- Page 19 ---
teinmo
id
sucear
tibon
atua
suminelev
allicnis
murae
mutnur
ebitaceS
19

--- Page 20 ---
P R I N T O U T
P R O T O T Y P E
Using the format stated previously and following the limitations of a thermal
printer (1 bit printing, 384px wide), prototype message printouts were made
to visualise the potential outcome of the CHAT device.
20

--- Page 21 ---
21

--- Page 22 ---
T E C H N O L O G Y
To create a text based analogue of speech, it would be ideal to first
start with the audio recording of the speech itself. This could then
be translated into the typographical form.
The speech would also have to become the written text so that there is
only a need for one input of information. This will require a microphone
input and computing hardware that can perform speech to text
conversion.
As stated in the previous section, it would be ideal to have an image taken,
therefore a camera that can easily be intergrated into the computing
hardware is required.
There is also a need to measure the participant's body movements around
the device because many of the non-verbal characteristics of interpersonal
communication are related to a person's overall position in space and
movement within their environment.
Finally, the device will need to a have a thermal printer to print off the
message "receipts".
[Not included in this prototype is the means of sending the message.
It could either be through radio via an adafruit feather or through
traditional internet communications via wifi.]
22

--- Page 23 ---
C O M P U T I N G
Because of the potential need for
complex processing of data and
integration of several technologies
within one processing pathway, it was
considered as optimal to choose a capable
single board computer such as the Raspberry
Pi 4.
This board has accessible GPIO pins that
can connect to devices such as the thermal
printer. These GPIO pins can power and
communicate with the printer over serial
communication, sending printing commands
and receiving information on the printing
state and paper levels.
The Raspberry Pi 4 has complementary
camera modules that can attatch via a
specific camera port. This is paired with
simple software integration and control.
The device itself runs a fully capable linux
based operating system that is easy to setup
and program within its environment. The
device can be accessed remotely to allow for
ease of programming/development.
The majority of the programming will
be using the language of Python as it is
incredibly versatile and libraries exist for the
control of the needed components. Detailing
of this will be shown later in the document.
23

--- Page 24 ---
S P E E C H T O T E X T
For the speech to be converted into text, a speech to text engine is needed.
There are several available to use including Google Speech-To-Text, Microsoft-
Cognitive-Services and IBM Watson. The one chosen however, is CMU Sphinx's
Pocketsphinx. This is an open source toolkit for speech to text recognition and has easily
accesible code for implementation in private projects such as CHAT.
This speech to text toolkit can be used both for live speech recognition as well as reading
a previously recorded audio file. For this project, an audio file is preferable as it would
enable a seemless recording of the audio and other variables such as body movement
(Prazdnichov 2018).
Pocketsphinx also has the ability to show the start and end times of the words. This
means that it is possible to determine how long each word took to say as well as when
they were said.
24

--- Page 25 ---
M I C R O P H O N E
For the audio input, a usb microphone (Audio Technica's AT9934) was gutted and
the internal componets were repurposed for the CHAT device.
The USB microphone requires minimal configuration to implement in the
Raspberry Pi and allows for minimal latency. It has an internal sound-card which
provides the gain control and analog to digital conversion so that the Raspberry Pi
merely needs to receive the digital signals and intergrate them into the speech to text
code.
25

--- Page 26 ---
26

--- Page 27 ---
E L E C T R O -
M A G N E T I C
F I E L D S E N S O R
Omnidirectionally sensing a body is an uncommon need in modern
technological devices. There is not a wide variety of technologies
and methods available to sense from a distance how a person moves
in three-dimensional space.
There is however, a musical instrument which is controlled in a manner that
mimics many of the gestural movements of a speaker in conversation. This
instrument is the theremin.
Invented in the 1920's by celloist and physicist León Theremin whilst he
was developing proximity sensors, the instrument is able to detect and react
to the human body when it was near two radio antennas, resulting in an
alien-like violin sound.
This instrument has been developed since, with many iterations, fine tuning
and simplification.
Though the theremin uses two antenna to control pitch and amplitude of
the sound, the CHAT device will only need to monitor one overall body
instead of the user's hands. This reduces the needed antenna by half and
greatly simplifies the circuit.
From the now simplified circuit, a prototype was able to be built that can
send the measurements of a person's movements to the Raspberry Pi.
A circular antenna design proved to yield optimum results and could
respond to movements up to 2m away.
27

--- Page 28 ---
THERMAL PRINTER
The printing of the message "receipt"
was chosen to be from a thermal
receipt printer. This is for many
reasons:
Firstly, a receipt printer has the ability
to print out long rolls of monochromatic
content. This creates a shape of text and
imagery that is visually similar to that of a
modern digital text message such as that
from a SMS or Facebook message.
Secondly, the printer itself uses no ink and
instead has paper that reacts to a heating
element inside the printer. This minimises
involvement in upkeep and maintenance
of the device as well as reducing the cost of
continued function.
The printer also has a iconic performative
aspect as it audibly prints line by line,
jutting the paper out in small bursts. This
combination of sound and movement can
aid in the emotional connection with the
device and the artifact that it creates.
The specific printer chosen was the Adafruit
Mini Thermal Printer. This printer has
preexisting libraries and code for use with a
Raspberry Pi.
28

--- Page 29 ---
CAMERA
Due to the selection of a Raspberry Pi as the computer of choice, the optimum camera
module would be the Pi Camera. This camera has a large level of support for software and
hardware development. Libraries are easily available for the Python language and access to
the camera's controls are embedded into the default Rasberry Pi software. The Raspberry Pi also
has a specific port that allows for direct connection to the camera module.
29

--- Page 30 ---
B O D Y S T O R M I N G
To understand how the CHAT device is to be interacted with and what affordances are
needed in its design, the method of bodystorming was implemented. This is the act of
using roleplay to walkthrough the user interaction of the device.
The CHAT team began with a small cube that was the approximate size needed to contain
the components of the device.
We then ran with the narrative of coming home and seeing the device. What would be
our intent when we first see it? How would we know if we have a message? How visible
should it be?
After walking over to the device what do we do? From the roleplaying, it was apparent
that some of us had the urge to pick up the device to inspect it. After inspecting CHAT, it
was observed that there was a significant need to see what was the front and back of the
device before we were able to continue the interaction.
The box was then modified to have a visible camera at the front.
After many runthroughs it was deduced that the optimal structure of the device would
have all initial interfaces visible on the front, the EMF sensor on the top and the printer
on the underside. This was to establish a visible hierachy and order of interaction with
the interfaces.
30

--- Page 31 ---
31

--- Page 32 ---
STORYBOARD
The CHAT device is planned to be used as follows. The user enters the room and
sees the device. They then either see a printed message or just the device itself.
If there is a printed message they will then read and flick the switch to begin the
message recording process. If there is no message then they will just flick the switch to
begin.
After switching the device on, the user will pose for their photo and the recording will
begin. The user will speak until they have finished their mesage, moving freely and
naturally throughout. They will then flick the switch off and the device will print their
message and send it to the recipient.
32

--- Page 33 ---
33

--- Page 34 ---
PHYSICAL STRUCTURE
After the bodystorming exercise it was essential to begin the exploration of shape and
structure.
The device should be easily picked up and confidently interacted with. These qualities
require the device to be small, light, visually sturdy and durable. To achieve this, it was decided
that the body would be initially 3D printed. This also allows for the device to have a more abstract
shape if necessary.
The design began with a cuboidal shape which was rotated, lifting the front of the device up.
This angles the printer to ensure that the receipt will project towards the user. The camera,
microphone and switch will be front facing. The microphone will have a shape that signifies it's
purpose and the camera will be angled to counter the body rotation.
34

--- Page 35 ---
The specifics of each physical component was refined to simplify the overall aesthetic and
form the device into one cohesive unit. Shaping the body with soft curves make it inviting
to touch whilst angling and protruding components emphasise purpose and function. The
angling of the device prevents the antenna from protruding towards the user's face and also angles
the microphone towards the mouth without the need for additional protruding shapes. Though
above, you can see potential microphone structures, it was decided that the presence of a patterned
array of holes was only affordance needed.
35

--- Page 36 ---
36

--- Page 37 ---
D E S I G N D E C I S I O N S
The design of the physical structure was further refined with
experimentations in childish zoomorphic structures and the
stripping back of all unnecessary shape.
The form could be angular and sharp or soft and playful. Below is an
illustration of what was seen to be the minimal level of shape. This
has the angled body and aimed printer with only a few curves. The
only protrusions are the legs and the toggle switch. It now presents
itself like a small alien creature. Something that could even be
considered endearing or cute.
37

--- Page 38 ---
F I N A L S K E T C H E S
38

--- Page 39 ---
Further refinement and progression in the technical aspects of this project lead
the design to become that presented above. Keeping the simple affordances and
signifiers and overall soft zoomorphic shape, the device is a balance of smooth
curves and simple geometry. A square front face allows the user to easily identify the
front and the back of the device. The camera is angled to run parallel with the surface
that the device is sitting on. The front legs remain soft so reaching between them will
have no level of intimidation or caution. The elctromagnetic field (EMF) antenna
protrudes proudly from the top, easily visible but not at all in the way.
A small size and curved back allows the device to be easily picked up and played with.
39

--- Page 40 ---
F I N A L D E S I G N
40

--- Page 41 ---
41

--- Page 42 ---
42

--- Page 43 ---
43

--- Page 44 ---
44

--- Page 45 ---
45

--- Page 46 ---
46

--- Page 47 ---
47

--- Page 48 ---
3 D P R I N T
48

--- Page 49 ---
The body was printed in two components. This allows for a simple manufacturing process.
The flat sides and gentle curves minimised the supporting material needed to print, thus
reducing the cost.
The printer slides into the base of the stricture and the Pi is mounted on the lip above it. The front
has screw holes for the camera and the microphone PCB is slotted into the formed crevace and
glued.
The two pieces slot together, held tightly with screws through the aigned holes.
49

--- Page 50 ---
The printed body is light-weight and convenient. easily played
with and able sit on any surface. It can even balance on your
head!
50

--- Page 51 ---
51

--- Page 52 ---
P R O G R A M M I N G
C H A T
OVERVIEW
For the CHAT device to convert the speech extracting the words from the speech with
to a modulated typographical printout, their start and end time.
the programming language Python was
These start and end times are then used to
chosen. This was because the language has
break the EMF reading and audio file into
a large level of support for the Raspberry Pi
segments which then have their average
as well as speech to text libraries.
amplitudes extracted.
It was also determined, that for simplicity
The word is then given attributes from the
of function, as well as the optimisation of
extracted values with the time taken for a
processing resources, the programming
word to be said becomming the word width
will be contained within one continuously
variable. The EMF reading will become the
running script.
height variable and the audio amplitude of
This program needed to first react to the the audio recording will become the weight
change of switch state, so that it knows of the text.
whether CHAT is set to send or receive
The next step is to use the words and their
signals. This changing of state to ON will
variables to create an HTML string using
initiate the taking of a photo which will
CSS styling to create the typography.
be saved for later use. After this image is
taken, the device will begin recording both Firstly however, the HTML file will be
the audio input and the input signals from created, the image previously taken will be
the electromagnetic field (EMF) sensor. added to the beginning of the file, then the
These will continue recording until the time and date as well as the sender name
user flicks the toggle switch into the OFF will be added underneath. The speech
position. will then be created with the variables
modulating typographical parameters.
Once the switch is flicked, the recording
of the EMF and audio finishes and the The HTML file is then rendered as a BMP
readings are saved to be used in the next image file which can then be sent to the
steps. thermal printer.
The speech to text engine (CMU Sphinx)
begins and analyses the audio file,
52

--- Page 53 ---
53

--- Page 54 ---
Code Setup
The code begins with the importing of The communication is then configured and
needed libraries and functions (see above). the specific library of communications to
To simply access the GPIO pins on the the printer is imported.
Raspberry Pi so that the toggle switch can
The audio file is then configured by firstly
be used, the RPi.GPIO library is called. The
importing the pyaudio and wave libraries
subsection of the pocketsphinx speech to
which then allow for an audio file to be
text library is imported. Time is imported
created in a specific folder thanks to the
so that the time and date can be added
help of os. This file is then opened and able
to the printout. The picamera library is
to be edited within the Python code.
imported and then os which allows for easy
Now a variable is set to be the time and
file management. The printer is then setup
date.
by importing serial which allows for serial-
port communication to the printer.
54

--- Page 55 ---
Camera Function
A function is created for the camera
module. This is so that whenever needed,
this section of the code can be called and
an image will be taken at the needed
resolution. It uses the previously imported
picamera library and accesses the camera
through the camera module port on the
pi. The camera's resolution is 1024 by 768
pixels however the printout will be only
384 pixels wide so when the image is taken
it will be resized to 320 by 240 pixels. The
image is simply named selfie.bmp and will
be called later in the code.
55

--- Page 56 ---
Recording function (BEGINNING)
The recording function (called later by will be created to be filled.
reading the switch as being ON) begins by
The recording will then continue while the
calibrating the audio input to the sample
toggle switch (GPIO.input(10)) is still in
rate and chanel number that is ideal for
the ON (==True) position.
the speech to text processing. The input
device is set to device 2 which is the usb
microphone, and the recording filename is
set to that which was created earlier.
The pyaudio system is started so that these
calibrations can be implemented and the
recording begun. A recording stream can
now be started with the calibrations and
an array of recorded audio values (frames)
56

--- Page 57 ---
Recording function (END) HTML and Toggle Switch Calibration
When the switch is no longer in the ON The HTML file is set to the name "Your
position (GPIO.input(10)==False), the Message.html" which will exist in the root
stream will stop and then close and the folder. It will have a page width of 384
audio system will terminate. The audio pixels as it is the width that can be printed.
file will then be opened and calibrated to It has a maximum length of 10000 pixels at
the audio settings and then filled with the this stage. The DPI is set to 72 so that font
recorded audio frames. This file is then sizing within html is directly converted to
closed and can now be used for further the pixels of the print. The FPS that is set
processing. to 100 is the effectiveness of the speech to
text. This setting is in the low to medium
range. The GPIO is callibrated for the
toggle switch so it can be read as stated
previously.
57

--- Page 58 ---
58

--- Page 59 ---
Speech to HTML to BMP Image
This is the core part of the code. It is where The speech to text will iterate through the
the previously recorded audio will be audio file finding each word and retreiving
processed using text to speech and then the beginning and end times for the word.
converted into an HTML webfile with CSS It also will find the punctuation and
styling. This can then be converted into remove the values that are not necessary
a BMP image that is able to be printed for this code.
by the thermal printer over serial port
The code then removes the formatting
communication.
that exported from the speech to text and
This section begins if the toggle switch rewraps it in the CSS styling. This new
is read as being ON. It then begins the string is added to the result.
camera function (previously described) and
Once the speech to text has finished
then the audio recording function.
running through the audio file, it will then
Once these functions have finished (after finish the HTML file with </body></html>
the toggle has been switched to OFF) the which then allows it to be proccessed as a
HTML file will be opened and the taken completed file.
image will be set to a variable and stored
Now the options for the HTML to image
in memory. A string is created (result) that
are set to a BMP with page width of 384
is filled with the beginning of an HTML
pixels and the imgkit function is called and
document that includes the CSS formatting
processes the result string.
of the page and the image taken. It will
This file is saved as message.bmp and the
also include the name of the sender(to be
HTML file is saved and closed.
added) and time/date.
message.bmp is now sent to the thermal
The string at this point ends by opening a
printer using the printer.printBitmap()
<body> section of the HTML file. This is
function.
so the next section (the speech to text) can
easily input the words to be presented in
The device now will be able to react to the
the required format.
next time the toggle switch is flicked.
This format is as follows: '<span
style="font-weight: {}%; font-size: {}%;
font-stretch: {};">{} </span>'.
<span> allows for CSS styling to be
implemented on a per-word basis, the font-
weight will adjust the thickness of the text,
the size will adjust overall height of the
word and the stretch will adjuist the width.
Each {} will be filled with the variables
weight, height, width and word.
59

--- Page 60 ---
C O N T R I B U T I O N
Throughout the project my tasks to text and connectivity of the various
and contributions were many. At the technologies, investigating which exact
commencement of semester I contributed technologies were required and how they
to the conception of the idea and could be manipulated.
determination of potential avenues of
These tasks then expanded to consider
project exploration.
how the audio is recorded and processed,
After the focus of the project was how the typography is formed, how the
determined I was responsible for modulation devices such as the EMF
researching what technologies were useful antenna work and how to print the receipt.
for our project, as well as highlighting what
Following group bodystorming, the
areas of theory should be investigated by
development of storyboards and face-
the other group members. All members
to-face (where possible) and virtual
contributed to this investigative phase.
simulations, I was then responsible for
After the primary background research the final design and creation of the outer
was completed, as a team we determined structure and possible manufacture.
what areas each member was interested
In addition to these tasks I assisted team
in learning so we could equitably
members with their designated activity
distribute the workload based on expertise
through the provision of technical details
and learning goals. Because of my
and information.
understanding of the technologies and
the theories, I helped to guide each team For the presentation phases of our
member to ascertain the required avenues project throughout the semester I created
of exploration for completing their tasks. sketches, renders, animations and other
This also involved coaching members to visual media including the compilation and
develop skills, to ensure project timelines production of the final video presentation,
were met. of which group members contributed
individual content.
The initial tasks delegated to me were
the research and development of the
internal programming such as the speech
60

--- Page 61 ---
R E F L E C T I O N
Throughout the development of this By the end of the semester, I was required
project, I encountered many ideological to assist the other members with their
and intellectual pathways of invaluable delegated tasks to ensure the project
benefit. The semester gave me opportunity progressed.
to develop skills in leadership as well
The project which at the beginning seemed
as designing many aspects of a complex
like a very manageable task for four
technology. It was obvious from the
people became overwhelming at times.
beginning that my aims and expectations
This paradigm was a consequence of
were excessive in comparison to my
my individual goals and a great learning
peers. By setting my goals high I forced
experience, providing insight into how
myself to increase my productivity and
moving foreward, I can both achieve
capabilities as both a group member and
the wanted level of self-benefit without
designer. The project required a vast array
detriment to the group dynamics.
of technical ability such as programming
in several languages, understanding I am thankful as I have gained a significant
obscure technologies and their interplay, amount from the learning experience,
and learning the complexities of modern especially in relation to leadership skills.
sociolinguistic structures and cultures.
This self-enforced pressure was however,
a double-edged sword. I may have had
the ability to learn an enormous array
of skills and theory, but it came at the
cost of requiring a large amount of effort
and time. This development also in ways
seemed to alienate the team, as our
learning trajectories and comprehension
of the activities differed. This in turn led
to much of my time leading, directing, and
explaining the processes in intricate detail.
61

--- Page 62 ---
R E F E R E N C E S
Argyle, M 1972, ‘Non-verbal communication in human social interaction.’,.
Battle, S 2019, ‘DRAWING PICTURES WITH A THEREMIN. Handsfree
Etch-a-Sketch - YouTube’, viewed 14 June 2021, <https://www.youtube.com/
watch?v=Rt3jlSQ7E1Y>.
Brown, TJ, Hooper, L, Elliott, RA, Payne, K, Webb, R, Roberts, C, Rostom, A &
Symmons, D 2006, ‘A comparison of the cost-effectiveness of five strategies for
the prevention of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug-induced gastrointestinal
toxicity: a systematic review with economic modelling.’, Health technology
assessment (Winchester, England), vol. 10, no. 38, pp. iii–iv, xi–xiii, 1–183.
Bryant, GA & Fox Tree, JE 2005, ‘Is there an Ironic Tone of Voice?’, Language and
Speech, vol. 48, no. 3, pp. 257–277.
Castro, JCE, Martins, P, Boavida, A & MacHado, P 2019, ‘«máquina de Ouver»
- From Sound to Type: Finding the Visual Representation of Speech by Mapping
Sound Features to Typographic Variables’, in ACM International Conference
Proceeding Series, Association for Computing Machinery.
Cheang, HS & Pell, MD 2008, ‘The sound of sarcasm’, Speech Communication,
vol. 50, no. 5, pp. 366–381.
Ferrara, K, Brunner, H & Whittemore, G 1991, ‘Interactive Written Discourse as
an Emergent Register’, Written Communication, vol. 8, no. 1, pp. 8–34.
Goulart, L, Gray, B, Staples, S, Black, A, Shelton, A, Biber, D, Egbert, J & Wizner,
S 2020, ‘Linguistic Perspectives on Register’, Annual Review of Linguistics, vol. 6,
pp. 435–455.
Hewes, G 1992, ‘History of Glottogonic Theories’, in Language Origin: A
Multidisciplinary Approach, Springer Netherlands, pp. 3–20.
Hunston, S 2007, ‘Semantic prosody revisited’, International Journal of Corpus
Linguistics, vol. 12, no. 2, pp. 249–268.
Iverson, JM & Goldin-Meadow, S 2005, ‘Gesture paves the way for language
development’, Psychological Science, vol. 16, no. 5, pp. 367–371.
James, A 2017, ‘Prosody and paralanguage in speech and the social media: The
vocal and graphic realisation of affective meaning’, Linguistica, vol. 57, no. 1, pp.
137–149.
Jensen, KE 2014, ‘Linguistics in the digital humanities: (computational) corpus
linguistics’, MedieKultur: Journal of media and communication research, vol. 30,
no. 57, p. 20.
Key, MR 2011, The relationship of verbal and nonverbal communication, De
Gruyter.
Keyes, E 1993, ‘Typography, color, and information structure’, Technical
Communication, vol. 40, no. 4, pp. 638–654.
Kleinke, CL 1986, ‘Gaze and Eye Contact. A Research Review’, Psychological
62

--- Page 63 ---
Bulletin, vol. 100, no. 1, pp. 78–100.
Luangrath, AW, Peck, J & Barger, VA 2017, ‘Textual paralanguage and its
implications for marketing communications’, Journal of Consumer Psychology,
vol. 27, no. 1, pp. 98–107.
Marmpena, M, Lim, A & Dahl, TS 2018, ‘How does the robot feel? Perception of
valence and arousal in emotional body language’, Paladyn, vol. 9, no. 1, pp. 168–
182.
Mehndiratta, P, Sachdeva, S & Soni, D 2017, ‘Detection of sarcasm in text data
using deep convolutional neural networks’, Scalable Computing, vol. 18, no. 3, pp.
219–228.
Nord Projects ‘Little Printers’, viewed 14 June 2021, <https://nordprojects.co/
projects/littleprinters/>.
Pennycook, A 1985, ‘Actions Speak Louder Than Words: Paralanguage,
Communication, and Education’, TESOL Quarterly, vol. 19, no. 2, p. 259.
Prazdnichov, D 2018, ‘Pocketsphinx Python’, PyPi, viewed 13 June 2021, <https://
pypi.org/project/pocketsphinx/>.
Rheindorf, M & Wodak, R 2019, ‘Genre-related language change: Discourse- and
corpus-linguistic perspectives on Austrian German 1970-2010’, Folia Linguistica,
vol. 53, no. 1, pp. 125–167.
Rosenberger, T & MacNeil, RL 1999, ‘Prosodic font’, in p. 252.
Shany-Ur, T, Poorzand, P, Grossman, SN, Growdon, ME, Jang, JY, Ketelle, RS,
Miller, BL & Rankin, KP 2012, ‘Comprehension of insincere communication in
neurodegenerative disease: Lies, sarcasm, and theory of mind’, Cortex, vol. 48, no.
10, pp. 1329–1341.
Spitzmüller, J 2019, A Sociolinguistics of Typography, St. Petersburg, viewed 10
June 2021, <www.spitzmueller.orgPetertheGreatSt.PetersburgPolytechnicUnivers
ity>.
Toolan, M 2007, ‘Trust and text, text as trust’, International Journal of Corpus
Linguistics, vol. 12, no. 2, pp. 269–288.
Tsonos, D & Kouroupetroglou, G 2008, ‘A Methodology for the Extraction of
Reader’s Emotional State Triggered from Text Typography’, in Tools in Artificial
Intelligence, InTech.
Vgalin ‘html2image’, PyPi, viewed 10 June 2021, <https://pypi.org/project/
html2image/>.
Walther, JB & Tidwell, LC 1995, ‘Nonverbal cues in computer mediated
communication, and the effect of chronemics on relational communication’,
Journal of Organizational Computing, vol. 5, no. 4, pp. 355–378.
Wang, Y, Shen, Y, Liu, Z, Liang, PP, Zadeh, A & Morency, LP 2019, ‘Words can
shift: Dynamically adjusting word representations using nonverbal behaviors’,
in 33rd AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, AAAI 2019, 31st Innovative
Applications of Artificial Intelligence Conference, IAAI 2019 and the 9th AAAI
Symposium on Educational Advances in Artificial Intelligence, EAAI 2019, AAAI
Press, pp. 7216–7223.
63

--- Page 64 ---
64