P R O G R A M M I N G
C H A T
OVERVIEW
For the CHAT device to convert the speech extracting the words from the speech with
to a modulated typographical printout, their start and end time.
the programming language Python was
These start and end times are then used to
chosen. This was because the language has
break the EMF reading and audio file into
a large level of support for the Raspberry Pi
segments which then have their average
as well as speech to text libraries.
amplitudes extracted.
It was also determined, that for simplicity
The word is then given attributes from the
of function, as well as the optimisation of
extracted values with the time taken for a
processing resources, the programming
word to be said becomming the word width
will be contained within one continuously
variable. The EMF reading will become the
running script.
height variable and the audio amplitude of
This program needed to first react to the the audio recording will become the weight
change of switch state, so that it knows of the text.
whether CHAT is set to send or receive
The next step is to use the words and their
signals. This changing of state to ON will
variables to create an HTML string using
initiate the taking of a photo which will
CSS styling to create the typography.
be saved for later use. After this image is
taken, the device will begin recording both Firstly however, the HTML file will be
the audio input and the input signals from created, the image previously taken will be
the electromagnetic field (EMF) sensor. added to the beginning of the file, then the
These will continue recording until the time and date as well as the sender name
user flicks the toggle switch into the OFF will be added underneath. The speech
position. will then be created with the variables
modulating typographical parameters.
Once the switch is flicked, the recording
of the EMF and audio finishes and the The HTML file is then rendered as a BMP
readings are saved to be used in the next image file which can then be sent to the
steps. thermal printer.
The speech to text engine (CMU Sphinx)
begins and analyses the audio file,
52