C O N T R I B U T I O N
Throughout the project my tasks to text and connectivity of the various
and contributions were many. At the technologies, investigating which exact
commencement of semester I contributed technologies were required and how they
to the conception of the idea and could be manipulated.
determination of potential avenues of
These tasks then expanded to consider
project exploration.
how the audio is recorded and processed,
After the focus of the project was how the typography is formed, how the
determined I was responsible for modulation devices such as the EMF
researching what technologies were useful antenna work and how to print the receipt.
for our project, as well as highlighting what
Following group bodystorming, the
areas of theory should be investigated by
development of storyboards and face-
the other group members. All members
to-face (where possible) and virtual
contributed to this investigative phase.
simulations, I was then responsible for
After the primary background research the final design and creation of the outer
was completed, as a team we determined structure and possible manufacture.
what areas each member was interested
In addition to these tasks I assisted team
in learning so we could equitably
members with their designated activity
distribute the workload based on expertise
through the provision of technical details
and learning goals. Because of my
and information.
understanding of the technologies and
the theories, I helped to guide each team For the presentation phases of our
member to ascertain the required avenues project throughout the semester I created
of exploration for completing their tasks. sketches, renders, animations and other
This also involved coaching members to visual media including the compilation and
develop skills, to ensure project timelines production of the final video presentation,
were met. of which group members contributed
individual content.
The initial tasks delegated to me were
the research and development of the
internal programming such as the speech
60