--- Page 1 ---
D e s i g n R e s e a r c h C o m pe n d i u m b y A l e x a n d e r E i n o d e r
s
3
8
6
6
6
4
7
MDIT
2021

--- Page 2 ---
asonic
The Asonic team comprised Lezhou Shen, Carlo Holden and myself Ali Einoder.
We worked on this project as part of a Master of Design Innovation Technology
studio under the guidance of Olivier Cotsaftis.
2 Ali Einoder

--- Page 3 ---
asonic
Contents
Abstract 5
Initial Research 7
Preliminary Ideas 22
More Research 25
Wave-Tile 40
Parametric Design 52
Tile Variations 61
Materials 62
Mounting 70
Analysis of Sound Diffusion 72
Summary of Outcomes 76
Summary of Contribution 82
S3866647 3

--- Page 4 ---
asonic
4 Ali Einoder

--- Page 5 ---
asonic
Abstract
Hospitals exist to provide care to vulnerable people and increase the health
and wellbeing of society, but does the environment within facilitate this?
Often visually unappealing and overtly synthetic, the sterile walls and lack
of beneficial stimuli, coupled with high levels of extraneous noise may act to
exacerbate stress and decrease mental wellbeing.
Modifying the hospital medical outcomes appearance of a moving
environment, increasing and recovery times of sea, the waves diffuse
the natural aesthetics, patients (Takeuchi, Enzo and absorb extraneous
and reducing the & Minamitani 2001). noise whilst connecting
ambient noise level has viewers to the natural
Through researching
the potential improve world they might
these concepts, the
the wellbeing of those otherwise be alienated
Asonic team has
within (Zhou et al. from. The biophilic
developed the Wave-
2020). The reduction imagery and the new
Tile. This tile (or series
of aggravating noise found clarity of sound
of tiles) is a synergism
alone has been shown will elevate the hospital
of biophilic and fractal
to significantly improve environment to one that
imagery and effect noise
mental clarity, mood is more conducive to the
mediation technologies.
and alertness of hospital institution’s purpose and
Formed in the
staff as well as improve goals.
S3866647 5

--- Page 6 ---
asonic
How do
we
use
the
environment
to
passively
maximise
mental
wellbeing in a
hospital
setting?
Illustration by Ali Einoder
6 Ali Einoder

--- Page 7 ---
asonic
I N I T I A L
R E S E A R C H
The hospital environment is one supportive work environment
which is designed with specific (Yang, Qiu & He 2021).
purposes and in accordance with
budgetary guidelines. Whether it be through altering
the physical background, or
Typically the design is focused through subconscious stimuli
on the health and wellbeing that guide the mental state, to
of the patients and consumers providing an employee a chance
(Connellan et al. 2013). While to detach and temporarily
the physical spaces may support disassociate to refresh their mind,
patients through their health the changes we can make to the
care trajectories, they may hospital environment can be of
however be detrimental to the great benefit. Human Centric
health and wellbeing of staff (Van Lighting, acoustic treatment,
Bogaert et al. 2017). and the introduction of simple
biophilic design elements could
As the world modernises and
be considered reasonable to
knowledge grows, it has become
implement and cater to a variety
apparent there is a requirement
of budgets.
to consider the mental wellbeing
of the hospital staff. Through These concepts have the
exploration of the physiological potential to be worked into a
basis of mental wellbeing and larger and synergistic support
the psychological and physical network for the modern hospital
effects of the environment, employee, assisting to reduce
it should be possible to find their stress, increase their energy
innovative ways to promote levels and help maximise their
an emotionally and mentally emotional and psychological
wellbeing.
S3866647 7

--- Page 8 ---
asonic
The state of our mind is the state of our Mental wellbeing has risen to the
being. When our mental wellbeing is forefront of public awareness and
diminished, our physical and long-term there is no shortage of challenges to
health quickly follows. These affronts overcome in the modern workplace
to our mental health and wellbeing can (Gritzka et al .2020; Connellan et al.
be obvious and conscious or subtle and 2013).
subconscious, as can the factors that
lead to the changes (Cooper, Boyko &
Codinhoto 2009; Yerbury & Lukey 2021).
Work related stress is one of the largest causes of illness world-wide.
8 Ali Einoder

--- Page 9 ---
asonic
Illustrations by Ali Einoder
Stress can be broken 2017; Çalışkan, Müller & release of chemicals such
into two main groups: Albrecht 2020; Wu et al. as cortisol in our bodies.
psychological stress and 2020). This can lead certain
physiological stress. Both functions and balances
In modern life however,
systems are intertwined to become unstable
the stressors that occur
and work to protect and and damaging (McEwen
are often not that which
react to threats within the 2016).
our bodies were adapted
environment.
to react to, and thus The constant challenging
By beginning an array of sometimes reactions are of these systems can
physiological procedures, inappropriate (Owens et lead to long term health
the stress response al. 2016). issues such as anxiety
can cause changes in and depression and thus
One of the main issues
our bodies that allow burden society greatly
is the common array
us to adapt and survive (Czéh et al. 2008).
of long-term stressors
stressful situations
which cause consistent
(Van Bogaert et al.
S3866647 9

--- Page 10 ---
asonic
Interoception & Empathy
The body monitors and responds This system also facilitates the
to its internal state (both physical transference of physical experience
and emotional) by using the to emotional, converting the spaces
interoceptive system (Domschke and actions of or on a person to
et al. 2010). This system facilitates a mood, feeling or acute emotion
the body’s fusion with the mind, (Czéh et al. 2008). This - though
allowing the cognitive state to practical for many occasions -
affect the physical and vis versa can be the means in which our
(Owens et al. 2016). This linking environment affects our mood. The
of mind and body helps humans lighting, noise levels, smell and
predict and prepare for future even taste of the environment can
physical events, allowing for a have a drastic impact on our mental
honing of physiological responses. and emotional state.
This mechanism is what leads us to
have physical responses to movies,
tv shows and stories (Schleip &
Jäger 2012).
Light Sound Nature
Environment and Mental Wellbeing
The environment that surrounds a person shapes their emotional and physical
state in many ways. From the emotional significance and stimulation of objects
and features to the subtleties of shape and form, the composition of our
surroundings change the way we think and feel (Gritzka et al. 2020).
Many different key attributes have been shown to have a direct effect on certain
aspects of mental wellbeing. Particularly that of stress and cognitive load
(Cooper, Boyko & Codinhoto 2009).
Illustrations by Ali Einoder
10 Ali Einoder

--- Page 11 ---
asonic
Feelings: Sensations perceived as emanating from
inside the body
Emotion: A neurological response that changes activity
Mood: A persisting state of being tied with long
presentations of specific feelings and emotions
Interoception: The sense of the body’s internal state
Homeostasis: A physiological tendency towards the
maintenance of an ideal stable state
S3866647 11

--- Page 12 ---
asonic
LIGHT
Humans developed to live in an
environment in which darkness
and light alternate in a 24hr cycle
(Connellan et al. 2013; Gomes &
Preto 2015).
The brain (specifically the
this system. The changes in light
suprachiasmatic nuclei) uses
stimulation over the day, both in
this cycle to regulate the body’s
amplitude and duration, lead to
internal rhythms that dictate
alterations in the body’s regulatory
aspects such as hormone release
rhythms (Bertani et al. 2021).
and blood flow (Bauer et al. 2018).
Large changes in the patterns and
Disruption of this cycle through the
trends of light exposure have been
alteration of light quality, duration
linked to increases in mental strain
and timing can cause certain
and the emergence of disorders
systems of the brain and body to
such as seasonal affective disorder
malfunction, leading to an array of
(SAD) which is associated with the
psychological and physiological
reduction of natural light following
disorders (Takeuchi, Enzo &
reduced daylight hours due to
Minamitani 2001).
seasonal changes (Li et al. 2020).
The most prominent theme
Certain studies have also shown
in the papers analysed was
that short term changes in light
the relationship between light
exposure have lead to reduced pain
mediated circadian rhythm and
and stress (Cupkova et al. 2019).
mental health.
There is also an association
The circadian rhythm’s regulation
between light exposure and mental
of melatonin secretion influences
acuity and awareness (Li et al. 2020;
a wide variety of hormonal and
Blume, Garbazza & Spitschan 2019;
biochemical system rhythms.
Cain et al. 2020).
The exposure of light to certain
photoreceptors in the eye as
well as to the skin can influence
Illustration by Ali Einoder
12 Ali Einoder

--- Page 13 ---
asonic
A lack of natural light has been linked to:
Decreased Immune Response
Decreased Self Control
Decreased Awareness
Poor Sleep Quality
Increase in Stress
Eating Disorders
Negative Mood
Depression
(Deguchi & Sato 1992)
S3866647 13
O e i s
r
n x
e
l p e
l
y
e
o n 1 s o
a
5 u u
s
m r g
e
e h
o
i n t
f
o t u o
e
t n
n
e a t
d
r s t i
o
u g o
r
r g
p
f a e
h
l r
i
i l t
n
g h
s
h e t

--- Page 14 ---
asonic
Sound
Long term noise exposure has been linked to mental health
issues such as anxiety and depression (Zhou et al. 2020).
Studies have shown a significant correlation between ambient
noise levels and heightened stress (Liu et al. 2007).
Access to quiet spaces reduces annoyance to noise by
10-20% (Zoontjens & Cockings 2014).
Natural environments have been shown to reduce the
stress response to ambient noise (Thoma, Mewes &
Nater 2018).
Ambient Noise
High levels of ambient WHO’s guidelines suggest This strain on the cognitive
noise can cause a that the ambient sound load can decrease the
decrease in productivity of hospitals should not ability to focus, remember
and performance. This exceed 40dB indoors in the and process information
is especially true when day and 30dB in the night. (Hahad et al. 2019). These
the tasks involve higher Extraneous noise has been effects can last even
reliance and load on demonstrated to have a after the noise has been
working memory. These significant effect on both reduced.
tasks are common within the staff and the patients
health care practice (Van (See guidelines right) (WHO
Kamp & Davies 2008). 1999).
14 Ali Einoder

--- Page 15 ---
asonic
(WHO 1999)
S3866647 15

--- Page 16 ---
asonic
NOISE & STRESS
Illustration by Ali Einoder
16 Ali Einoder

--- Page 17 ---
asonic
Along with disruption of Hospital environments often
concentration and annoyance lack quite spaces, especially for
to the listener, ongoing noise patients. The inability to escape
may also increase the level of the cacophony, even at night, be
cortisol in the body. This promotes of great detriment to the mental
the development of illnesses wellbeing of patients and staff
associated with chronic stress (de Lima Andrade et al. 2021). This
such as anxiety and heart disease increasing anxiety, stress and
(Clarke 2005; Zhou et al. 2020). agitation builds, exacerbating the
Additionally, excess ambient incidents of aggravation.
sound has also been shown to
alter the dopamine levels within
the prefrontal cortex, potentially
decreasing higher brain function,
learning and memory. Potentially,
this detriment to working
memory may be responsible
for the correlation between
ambient noise and worse medical
outcomes (Jensen et al. 2019).
Listening to the sounds of nature has been shown
to quicken the physiological recovery from acute
stress (Alvarsson, Wiens & Nilsson 2010).
S3866647 17

--- Page 18 ---
asonic
Illustration by Ali Einoder
18 Ali Einoder

--- Page 19 ---
asonic
NATURE
Two main theories of stress
mediation - attention restoration
Exposure to nature (trees, theory (ART) and stress restoration
water, wind) has been shown theory (SRT) indicate a significant
to decrease stress and connection between nature and
replenish cognitive energy mental wellbeing (Scopelliti, Carrus
(Hunter et al. 2015). & Bonaiuto 2019).
Access to a garden area has With ART, nature provides a means
been linked to a reduction in for the natural stimuli to provide
workplace stress and anxiety a mental interest and thus enable
(Connellan et al. 2013). restoration through directed focus
(Wells & Evans 2003).
Access to shared gardens are
also beneficial for community With SRT, a person subconsciously
connection which in turn connects with their natural
improves mental wellbeing environment and is restored
(Totaforti 2018). through a balancing of their
hedonic wellbeing (Kaplan 1995).
S3866647 19

--- Page 20 ---
asonic
Illustration by Ali Einoder
20 Ali Einoder

--- Page 21 ---
asonic
Inclusion of plants, art resembling nature
and looking at nature through windows
has been shown to increase productivity,
mental wellbeing, attention, concentration
and perceived energy levels of workers
within an environment (Gritzka et al. 2020).
S3866647 21

--- Page 22 ---
asonic
Preliminary Ideas
Illustration by Ali Einoder
How do
Natural lighting?
we use the
environment
to passively Biophilic design elements?
maximise
mental
Acoustic treatment?
wellbeing
in a hospital
setting? Olfactory stimulation?
22 Ali Einoder

--- Page 23 ---
asonic
S3866647 23

--- Page 24 ---
asonic
24 Ali Einoder
R
M
E S
OE
A
R
R
E
C H
Illustration by Ali Einoder

--- Page 25 ---
asonic
S3866647 25
R
M
E S
OE
A
R
R
E
C H
The sonic environment directly affects the
Many mechanisms of acoustic treatment have been
mental wellbeing of those within it. With the
established to reduce unwanted noise. Ones of focus
ambient noise levels, sound frequencies and sound
are absorption, diffusion, masking and vibration
sources all playing a part in how a person thinks,
control (Przyborowski, Loboda & Bialik 2018).
feels and behaves (Alvarsson, Wiens & Nilsson
These functions can be harnessed by the careful
2010). In aa high stress environment such as a
design of the shape of a structure and utilisation
hospital, the ambient noise levels can catalyse and
of the physical qualities of certain materials.
intensify the effect of other stressors and may
cause long term, damaging effects on the staff, The following research aims to illuminate
patients and their family members (Zhou et al. mechanisms of reducing the impact of ambient
2020). noise by utilising contemporary formations of
established sound treatment practices. These
Extraneous noise within a hospital originates from
formations are to both reduce the ambient noise
many sources such as people, equipment, and air-
and utilise natural shapes by deconstructing nature
conditioning (Darbyshire et al. 2019). Removing
into its mathematical elements. This is then re-
these sound sources would be a complex and
imagined within a hospital context to further
difficult endeavour, thus it seems more logical to
reduce stress and increase wellbeing.
instead prevent the spread and compounding of
unwanted noise.

--- Page 26 ---
asonic
Illustration by Ali Einoder
26 Ali Einoder

--- Page 27 ---
asonic
Effects of extraneous noise on autonomic activity, Ali Einoder
High noise environments are detrimental to working
memory especially when paired with high perceptual,
linguistic, and cognitive demands.
Chronic noise exposure, even at moderate intensity,
can hamper psychomotor, intellectual, attention, and
memory functions (Thimmegowda et al. 2015).
S3866647 27

--- Page 28 ---
asonic
“The indoor daytime L values in
eq
hospitals ranged from 37 dBA to
88.6 dBA , while the night-time lev-
els varied from 38.7 dBA to 68.8
dBA” (Filus et al. 2015).
28 Ali Einoder

--- Page 29 ---
asonic
Graphic by Ali Einoder
In one study, 84% of anesthetists reported that the
noise levels in their operating rooms negatively
affected their work (Katz 2014).
Patient safety and comfort can be adversely affected
by noise pollution, this can alter the required dosage
of anaesthetic agent.
A correlation has been identified between increased
sound levels during surgery and surgical-site
infections (Mcleod et al. 2021).
S3866647 29

--- Page 30 ---
asonic
Operating Room Suite
Staff-related activities and conversations are a major
component of operating room noise and can produce
noise levels as high as 78 dBA .
Equipment-related noises as great as 120 dBA are
caused by movement of equipment, clanging, and
dropping of metal instruments, use of electric or air-
powered surgical instruments, hammers, suction
apparatus, anaesthetic monitors, and alarms (Mcleod
et al. 2021).
Forced air warming units alone add as much as 84 dBA
to the background noise.
Music can be up to 87dBA.
In one study conducted during cardiac surgery, there
was an average of 359 ± 158 alarms (1.2 min−1), 80% of
which had no therapeutic significance (Katz 2014).
30 Ali Einoder

--- Page 31 ---
asonic
Illustration by Ali Einoder
ICU Delivery Room
Intensive Care Units are Delivery rooms often exceed
commonly some of the noisiest 90dBA due to the crying of both
areas within a hospital with mothers and babies, dropping
the sound pressure levels of instruments, and slamming of
of neonatal ICUs averaging cupboard doors.
between 48 and 61dBA over 95%
Higher exposure to noise (both
of the time (Jung et al. 2020).
in duration and amplitude) has
A common source of noise been linked to lower clinical
are the patient alarms which performance (Jensen et al.
have a frequency range that is 2019).
equivalent to a human scream
or a baby’s cry (2.5-3.15kHz)
(Darbyshire et al. 2019).
S3866647 31

--- Page 32 ---
asonic
Biophilia, Patterns and
Wellbeing
The environments which Analysis of the mathematical
facilitate optimum wellbeing composition of nature has shown
and mental ability seem to be insight into what forms an ideal
those which reproduce and environment. Mimicking the
present the mathematical key components and relations
and structural properties of natural forms can bring the
and relations of those which natural elements into otherwise
encompassed ancestral purely synthetic environments
humanity. (Salingaros 2012).
The core aspects of the These mathematical compositions
environments which facilitated and patterns have a direct
the development of homo influence on the neurology of the
sapiens may still be needed for experiencer, potentially though
ideal cognitive and emotional the modulation of pleasure-
function, even in today’s hyper- regulating μ-opioid receptors
synthetic world (Kellert, 2008). (Biederman and Vessel 2006).
32 Ali Einoder

--- Page 33 ---
asonic
Fractals
Fractal patterns and geometry The prevalence of simple
are those which contain structures in synthetic
repeating shapes and patterns environments and the excess
that reduce in size with each in mental stress may be due to
iteration. This property of being the antithesis of fractal
self-similarity is prevalent environments. This non-optimal
throughout nature as it is the D can exacerbate anxiety and
outcome of hyper-irrational depressive behaviour.
mathematical relations that
Harnessing the use of fractal
allow for repeating structures to
imagery and structures within
result in high integrity structures.
an environment has been shown
The fractal arrangement of
to improve mental acuity and
structure can also lead to
reduce stress-related detriment
maximisation of surface area in a
to mental wellbeing. This is
given area (Williams 2017).
possibly a mechanism to the
The unique qualities of fractal relationship between natural
patterns and geometries have environments and mental
a been shown to have calming, health.
anxiolytic effects on viewers
(Salingaros 2012).
The relationship between the
fracticality of a pattern or shape
and the psychological effect
on the viewer is related to
the “fractal dimension” of the
structure (D). Humans respond
ideally when the D value is
between 1.3 and 1.5, regardless
of what the actual shape or
structure looks like.
S3866647 33

--- Page 34 ---
asonic
Sound Treatment
Illustration by Ali Einoder
34 Ali Einoder

--- Page 35 ---
asonic
Sound mediation plan for Wave-Tile, Ali Einoder
Absorption
A material’s ability to absorb sound is measured with the sound absorbtion
coefficient. This is the percentage of the sound wave’s energy that is
transferred to the material. This coefficient is related to the frequencies of the
sound and the incidence direction of the sound (Dunne, Desai & Sadiku 2017).
The efficiency of sound absorption is related to a series of factors:
1. The material’s mass density: The material’s mass density is inversely
correlated to the preferred frequency of absorption. The higher the mass
density, the higher the absorption of low frequencies and lower the
absorption of high frequencies (Abdi et al. 2021).
2. The thickness of a material: Higher thickness is associated with higher
absorption of lower frequencies of sound. It has however, low impact on
the absorption of higher frequencies (Koruk & Genc 2018).
3. The features of a material’s pores: Smaller pores in higher number will
yield the greatest sound absorption.
S3866647 35

--- Page 36 ---
asonic
Diffusion
A key and important characteristic of picture of normal shape). These
the sound environment of a space is tilings of small square pyramids
the diffusion of sound. The diffusion break apart the soundwaves as the
is the way in which the sound sound hits the four presented faces
reflects off surfaces and disperses of each pyramid. An alternate style
(‘The Geometry of Sound Diffusion - of diffuser as such as maximum
Payette’ n.d.). length sequence (MLS) diffuser is
composed of strips with two different
Mitigation of ambient noise
depths. These created grooves trap
requires that the diffusion of sound
sound and cause it to reflect multiple
maximises the reduction of energy.
times, losing much of its energy. The
This can be achieved by utilising
variation in groove width preferences
complex shaped structures that
different frequency ranges. A high
disperse the sound in a variety of
variety of groove width thus has a
patterns that cause the sound wave
higher range of ability regarding
to lose the unity of their alignment
soundwave diffusion (Strube 1981).
and direction. This mechanism
is optimised in the conventional A third common type of sound
implementation of sound diffusing diffuser is the previously mentioned
objects such as Quadratic Residue QRD. This sound diffusing structure
Diffusers (QRD) which shift the features a curved surface which
timing/phase of the reflected sound alters the timing and phase
(Schroeder 1979). alignment of the sounds that hit it.
With the curved surface preventing
These sound diffusers can be
the parallel and reinforced
constructed into many different
soundwaves from reflecting in the
shapes, from many different
same arrangement that they were
materials and in many different sizes.
initially traveling in (Schroeder 1979).
As the sound hits a diffuser, some
The size of the diffusing surface in
of the sound is reflected into the
the x and y dimensions only effect
environment. These soundwaves
the area that the sound is mitigated.
will reflect at angles and directions
However, the size of the surface in
related to the angle that they hit the
the z dimension (how far it protrudes
diffuser and the angle of the surface
into the space) can alter the sound
that they hit. By alternating the angle
diffusion properties dramatically.
of the diffusing surface in patterns
This is co-dependent on the shape
such as waves or spikes, the once
and structure of the surface. High
parallel waves are now split into
variance in the surface protrusion
many different directions. This lack of
can lead to a higher variation in
unity in the array of wave directions
the angles of reflectance, as well
causes the waves to lose energy and
as increase the probability of the
to become asynchronous when they
soundwaves being “trapped” on
hit an observer’s ears (Strube 1981).
the surface and reflecting/diffusing
There are several varying trends with multiple times. This array thus results
the shape of the diffusing surface. in a higher diffusion of sound and a
Most common are variations in a higher reduction of ambient noise.
spiked/triangular surface [insert
36 Ali Einoder

--- Page 37 ---
asonic
Illustration by Ali Einoder
S3866647 37

--- Page 38 ---
asonic
HOW MIGHT
WE USE
BIOPHILIC
FORMS AND
MATERIALS
TO REDUCE
THE AMBIENT
38 Ali Einoder

--- Page 39 ---
asonic
NOISE OF THE
HOSPITAL
AND
IMPROVE THE
WELLBEING
OF THOSE
WITHIN IT?
S3866647 39

--- Page 40 ---
asonic
40 Ali Einoder

--- Page 41 ---
asonic
WAVE-TILE
Wave-Tile render in hospital environment, Ali Einoder
S3866647 41

--- Page 42 ---
asonic
42 Ali Einoder

--- Page 43 ---
asonic
Illustration of design progression and development , Ali Einoder
Creation of the Wave-Tile culminated from researching many topics and
forms, beginning with the fundamentals of sound treatment as well as
natural shapes and patterns. A set of design rules were determined to ensure
that the final form balanced the physical and aesthetic functions so that the
tiles will be of most benefit to those around them.
S3866647 43

--- Page 44 ---
asonic
Surface Structure
The surface of wavy water has
fundamental aspects that calm
and sooth the psychological state
of those who view it. The fractal
nature of the curves, valleys and
patterns of local minimums and
maximums create non-repeating
patterns that ride the line between
infinitely complex and intrinsically
understandable. This perfectly
natural form has been shown to
reduce stress, especially related to
noise-induced stress.
The waved surface breaks the
parallelity of the sound waves
as the variety of curved, waved
surfaces refract and reflect the
sound irregularly. This irregularity
causes the sound waves’ energy to
dissipate as they lose phase and
temporal alignment.
A spreading of phase causes the
sound waves to cancel each other
out and lose energy.
Wave-Tile sound diffusion, Ali Einoder Wave-Tile render, Ali Einoder
44 Ali Einoder

--- Page 45 ---
asonic
S3866647 45

--- Page 46 ---
asonic
Wave-Tile render, Ali Einoder
46 Ali Einoder

--- Page 47 ---
asonic
The surface of the tile has potential to improve wellbeing through
several mechanisms. The functional aesthetics use the psychological
and neurological benefits of fractal imagery to reduce stress of
those within the environments. This is maximised by creating waved
structures with optimal fractal D values using parametric design.
The transparent, reflective nature of the outside material allows for
a dynamic modulation of the environmental light. These dynamics
reduce the stagnant sterility of the environment in a natural manner
that can aid in reducing fatigue and cognitive burden through light
subconscious stimulation.
As described previously, the tiles have the ability to reduce extraneous
noise, preventing the washing of reflected soundwaves by both
absorbing the energy of soundwaves and diffusing the sound that is
reflected.
The overall appearance and visual connection with the ocean has
the added benefit of structuring the emotional connection one has to
the environment. With the washing of oceans and seemingly moving
water over the walls, the novel environment and the tiles’ psychological
support will fuse into a more calming and positive memory of the
location. This, in conjunction with the other aspects of the design, will
elevate the ability of the space to promote wellbeing of all those within.
S3866647 47

--- Page 48 ---
asonic
<- Sketches of tiling mechanisms and wave aesthetics, Ali Einoder
48 Ali Einoder

--- Page 49 ---
asonic
Tiling
Fundamental to the functional qualities of the Wave-Tiles is the ability to be
arranged to make a larger cohesive pattern all whilst retaining the fractal
and water-like qualities of the surface. Achieving this took a considerable
amount of time and subsequent development of the tile.
The primary obstacle was the ability of the waves’ peaks and troughs to flow
seamlessly from one tile to another.
A novel solution to this problem is the regulation of tile border patterns.
By determining template edge waves that are complementary, the central
wave surface may be randomised.
Though initially proven to be effective, the previously stated methodology
created a new issue. The corners of each tile had consistent and
recognisable z-axis positions, impeding the wanted creation of larger,
cohesive and seamless pieces when multiple tiles combined.
Addressing this challenge required the creation of a checker-board styled
sequencing of tiles, with the “black” tiles having one set of predetermined
edges and the “white” tiles having another. This allows for a variation in
corner heights which reduce the sense of a repeating pattern when multiple
tiles are placed together.
Unfortunately, this solution does reduce the possible combinations with a
given set of tiles, as the order and placement now has restrictions.
<- Sketches of tiling mechanisms and wave aesthetics, Ali Einoder
S3866647 49

--- Page 50 ---
asonic
50 Ali Einoder

--- Page 51 ---
asonic
Sketches of tiling mechanisms and wave aesthetics, Ali Einoder
S3866647 51

--- Page 52 ---
asonic
Parametric design:
The Wave
Using the Rhino plugin Grasshopper, After much experimentation and
the waves that were generated consultation with the design aims,
were able to embody certain it was deemed necessary that
predetermined aspects of form. generation must begin with creating
These aspects were able to remain the outside boundaries. This is
constant even as other aspects were because the outside border of a
changed. This is a fundamental value tile must be complementary and
of parametric design. seamless with those that sit next to
this border.
To create this generative algorithm,
the team worked to first determine Following is the generation of the
the order/hierarchy of the form inside wave structure.
characteristics’ creation.
52 Ali Einoder

--- Page 53 ---
asonic
Image of Grasshopper Algorithm for Wave-Tile, Lezhou Shen
To achieve a seemingly non-repeating The generated xyz points are then
pattern and allow for more seamless collated and organised so that
tiling, two separate edge arrays are they can be further processed.
created. These categories of edges are The fundamental processing is
then used to create two categories of the formation of smooth curved
tiles that are required to be placed in an connections between these points.
alternating, checkerboard array.
This, when finished, leaves us with
The algorithm has within it two sections an ocean-like surface of pseudo-
that generate the fractal, wavelike directional wave-like patterns of
nature of the tile’s surface. This is the peaks and troughs that will form the
creation of the x and y axis, with their foundation of the Wave-Tile.
respective variations of z-axis points.
S3866647 53

--- Page 54 ---
asonic
Parametric design:
The Components
After creating the algorithm responsible for the wave surface, further
processing was needed to create the composition of the tiles. As shown
above, there are four separate functions, one to create the cellulose inside,
one to create ceiling tiles, one to form the struts that hold the ceiling tiles and
one that creates an array of varying tiles to be placed on a wall.
54 Ali Einoder

--- Page 55 ---
asonic
Image of Grasshopper Algorithm for Wave-Tile, Lezhou Shen
Adjusting the parameters within each of these functions allow one to create a
tile for a multitude of areas. There are options to adjust size, wave depth and
fractal D value, number of tiles needed and more.
This highlights again the benefit of parametric design.
S3866647 55

--- Page 56 ---
asonic
Above is an image showing what was perhaps the most influential
prototype created. By converting a hand-drawn sketch into a
3-dimensional wave pattern, several epiphanies emerged. First is that
the core idea was possible. Second however, is that an even number
of waves on all edges creates a chaotic wave pattern that lacks the
wanted emotion. This lead to the development of a more linear wave
pattern that has significantly more peaks and valleys on two opposing
edges than the other two perpendicular to them.
The special sauce of the design is the creation of the tile edges (see
above). The ability to match up tiles seamlessly is imperative to the tiles
aesthetic function. Without the flowing of the waves from one section
to another, the tiles will fail to create the mesmerizing visual of an
ocean.
56 Ali Einoder

--- Page 57 ---
asonic
The alternating wave density on the edges leads the wave generating
algorithm to create the appearance of directional movement. Like
water slowly lapping the shore the smooth parallel waves only slightly
disform and angle. Reducing the perpendicular wave number fewer
than three proved to remove the realism of the wave and moved the
shape further away from its needed fractal identity.
After forming the structure of the edges the inside waves can be
generated to create a smooth variety of peaks and troughs that flow
from one edge to the other, crossing over and fluctuating in height. As
long as the edge requirement is met then this inner wave structure can
have infinite possibilities.
S3866647 57

--- Page 58 ---
asonic
To optimise the waves’ form and function it was necessary to analyse
the potential installation locations (see above). This breakdown
of the hospital environment illustrated the need for high levels of
modulation and variability in the design.
58 Ali Einoder

--- Page 59 ---
asonic
Sketches of possible Wave-Tile locations, Ali Einoder
The forms that the tiles can take vary from roof panels to corner
pieces to the wrapping of benches.
S3866647 59

--- Page 60 ---
asonic
Ceiling Wave-Tiles, Lezhou Shen
Careful processing of the research and design goals
illuminated that three compositions were of most
importance. Firstly is the ceiling tile (see above). This
tile can replace the usual ceiling panels throughout the
hospital environment requiring relatively low cost of
installation and providing a high level of effect.
The second wave form is the corner piece (see below).
This corner wave is necessary to maximise the reduction
of low frequency noise in the environment.
Finally, the most iconic and highly important piece is
the standard wall tile (see across). This tile can work
seamlessly in conjunction with the other two forms and
can allow for an up-close and personal effect on those
within the hospital.
Corner Wave-Tile, Carlo Holden
60 Ali Einoder

--- Page 61 ---
asonic
Tile Variations
Multiple Wave-Tiles, Carlo Holden
S3866647 61

--- Page 62 ---
asonic
Materials
Outer Shell
The outer shell is required to be hard enough to hold the wave-tile’s structure,
without the porosity to absorb water and microbiota, and transparent enough to
allow for the light to pass through and simulate light’s interaction with water.
This outer-shell material must also have the least environmental impact as
possible whilst meeting the previously stated goals as well as maintaining a
relatively low cost.
These requirements would suggest the use of a transparent bioplastic. Made
from a range of renewable sources such as corn starch, many bioplastics can
be synthesised to have the necessary requirements and beneficially can return
to the manufacturing process or be broken down to environmentally safe
materials.
62 Ali Einoder

--- Page 63 ---
asonic
Exploded View of Wave-Tile, Ali Einoder
Inner Material
The inner material will absorb most of the non-reflected sound. To achieve the
optimum absorbance, the material will require certain properties.
Firstly, the inner material needs to have high absorptive properties with varying
preferences in frequency spectra. Meeting these requirements in a sustainable
way would suggest the use of insulation materials created from either cellulose
or recycled cotton.
These two materials are formed in a sustainable way from renewable sources,
allowing for a relatively low impact in the manufacturing process. They are also
easily dyed to the bluish colour required for the water-like optical effect.
S3866647 63

--- Page 64 ---
asonic
Bioplastics
As consumers become more Bioplastics are mostly created from
environmentally focused, product organic or plant based sources,
designers and producers have often created from waste biological
sought more sustainable materials to material. The resulting product
shape their creations. This, along with is recyclable, compostable and
substantial innovation in material commonly biodegradable drastically
science and biochemistry, has lead reducing the environmental impact
to the proliferation of bioplastics in comparison to fossil fuel based
(Rai et al. 2011). plastics (Rudnik 2019).
Degradable Biodegradable Compostable
All plastics, whether To be considered Compostability
bio-based or as biodegradable, is the breakdown
petroleum-based a plastic will need of the plastic into
are degradable in to be able to be compost by bacteria
some form. The deconstructed by or other microbiota.
conditions and time organisms such as In contrast to other
periods needed for bacteria. This process biodegradable
the degradation of can be divided plastics,
oil-based plastics into three stages: compostable bio-
can however, biodeterioration, plastics require
be undesirable biofragmentation and environments that
requiring either assimilation (Vasile are easily found and
extreme conditions 2020). are less specialised
or enormous (Rudnik 2019).
amounts of time
(Vasile 2020).
64 Ali Einoder

--- Page 65 ---
asonic
Starch- Cellulose- Bio-derived
Based based Polyethylene
Derived primarily These are created Fermenting certain
from corn or potato by cellulose esters biological materials
starch and may be and other cellulose such as sugarcane
mixed with other derivatives. This can can result in the
biodegradable also be added to formation of
polyesters (Imam, starch increasing its polyethylene (Rai et
Glenn & Chiellini mechanical properties al. 2011).
2012). and making it more
resistant to water (Li et
al. 2014).
PHA Aliphatic Polyesters
Polyhydroxyalkanoates or Derived from compounds
PHAs are linear polyesters such as lactide, glycolide and
produced in nature by ecaprolactone.
bacterial fermentation of
These degrade chemically by
sugar or lipids. More than
hydrolytic cleavage. This can
150 different monomers
be catalysed by both acids
can be combined to yield
and bases.
different properties.
If synthesised from lactic
These are biodegradable
acids, it is by the process of
and can be either
condensation but if from a
thermoplastic or
cyclic lactide monomer it is by
elastomeric materials. In a
ring opening polymerization
pure unblended form the
(Rai et al. 2011).
melting point of PHA ranges
from 40-180 degrees
Celsius. This allows for easy
formation of structures
(Rai et al. 2011).
S3866647 65

--- Page 66 ---
asonic
Poly(3-hydroxybutyrate-co-3-hydroxyvalerate)(PHBV)
A plastic in the family of polyhydroxyalkanoates (PHAs), poly(3-
hydroxybutyrate-co-3-hydroxyvalerate) (PHBV) has been the focus of manifold
research. The structural and physicochemical properties of PHBV have proven
to be of high value in many industries including medicine (Tebaldi et al. 2019).
PHBV is much less prone to biodegradation than other PHA biopolymers
and can be synthesised to have more hydrophobic properties. Though this
is often seen as a negative composition when purposed for specific medical
applications such as cell interaction through drug therapy, this is of high benefit
when creating an object that will need to withstand microbial proliferation
within a hospital environment (Figueroa-Lopez et al. 2020.
PHBV may be synthesised within the cytoplasm of both gram-negative and
gram-positive bacteria. Each of these bacterial groups, however, pose their own
issues. Synthesis of PHBV by gram-positive bacteria have proven to be far more
costly as the purification processes are excessively difficult. Gram-negative
bacterial synthesis can lead to the co-production of specific endotoxins that
that may cause inflammatory reactions. This potential toxic reaction may not be
an issue when the material is used in the creation of a non-ingested product.
Table 1- Minimum Inhibitory concentration and minimum bactericidal
concentation of oregano essential oil and zinc oxide nanoparticles
against S.aureus and E.coli (Figueroa-Lopez et al. 2020).
66 Ali Einoder

--- Page 67 ---
asonic
Visual transparency of the electrospun biopapers
of PHBV:
(a) NeatPHBV,
(b) PHBV +10wt% OEO,
(c) PHBV +3%wt% ZnONPs,
(d) PHBV + 7.5wt% OEO +0.75wt% ZnONPs,
(e) PHBV +5wt% OEO +1.5wt% ZnONPs,
(f) PHBV + 2.5wt% OEO + 2.25wt% ZnONPs
(Figueroa-Lopez et al. 2020).
The created material is relatively rigid and thermally stable in comparison to
many PHA bioplastics especially if increasing the side group length of the HV
units on the PHBV molecules (Tebaldi et al. 2019).
Blending of other polymers is common in the manufacturing process of
PHBV. Materials blended with this bioplastic vary from polymers such as
polylactic acid or natural fibres such as bamboo. This blending improves the
physicochemical properties of the structure and can be utilised to create
tailored products suitable to their end purpose (Figueroa-Lopez et al. 2020.
A novel means of creating a transparent composition of PHBV is the
electrospinning of fibre-based films of PHBV which were derived from
the fermentation of fruit waste. As modifiers of this compound, zinc-oxide
nanoparticles (ZnONPs) and oregano essential oil (OEO) were added. These
two products were added to the polymer before the electrospinning process.
This addition provides antimicrobial properties to the blend and greatly
improve the crystallinity and thus transparency. A paper thin composition of the
final compound has been shown to resist over 48 days of inundation of both
Escherichia coli and Staphylococcus Aureus (Figueroa-Lopez et al. 2020.
Table 2- Mechanical properties of the electrospun biopapers of PHBV containing OEO and
ZnONP in terms of tensile modulus (E), tensile strength at yield (σ ) elongation at break (ε )
γ b
and toughness (Figueroa-Lopez et al. 2020).
Presence of ZnONPs has been shown to increase the opaqueness of the PHBV
blend when compared to non-blended or OEO blends. 10 wt% OEO in opposition,
improved the transparency of the biopolymer. The blends also show increases in
the toughness (mJ/mm3) with both ZnONP and OEO increasing the toughness of
the compound dramatically, OEO especially so (Figueroa-Lopez et al. 2020.
S3866647 67

--- Page 68 ---
asonic
Cellulose Fibre
Cellulose fibre is a common insulative material often used
in house insulation, treating attics and floors, It’s popularity
and proliferation is rising due to being one of the most
sustainable options for insulation (Arenas et al. 2014).
Cellulose fibre can be created from a multitude of sources
including recycled paper and food waste. At the product’s
end of life, the cellulose fibre can be recycled into more
cellulose-based products or it can be degraded into simple,
eco-friendly compounds (Li et al. 2014).
The properties that facilitate cellulose fibre excellence
in heat insulation also lend themselves to the process of
sound absorbance. The porosity of the structure force
encountered sound-waves to transfer their energy, as they
travel through varying molecular densities. This vibration
of the pores converts the energy into heat and physical
movement, lessening the remaining energy of the sound
(Zhang et al. 2014).
The porous cellulose fibre performs optimally in typical loud
anthrophonic environments with thicknesses >50mm (see
right). Increasing this thickness further does increase the
absorbance of lower frequencies. This paradigm may be
exploited in the formation of sound mediation structures if
needed (Arenas et al. 2014).
68 Ali Einoder

--- Page 69 ---
asonic
Sound absorption for different thicknesses of cellulose material
samples, (-) 0% relative humidity, (--) 69% relative humidity
(Arenas et al. 2014).
S3866647 69

--- Page 70 ---
asonic
Mounting
The material backing/
mounting plate has
fewer requirements
than that of the other
components. It is
however, required to be
a solid and structurally
rigid material that
can be easily drilled
and mounted to the
surfaces. For this, either
a bioplastic such as the
one used for the outer
shell could be used as
it will have adequate
rigidity and easily be
able to hold the weight
of the structure.
Wave-Tile wall mounting mechanism, Ali Einoder
70 Ali Einoder

--- Page 71 ---
asonic
The tiles are needed to be mounted in a fashion which removes the
need for gravity to hold the tile to the surface it is mounted on. The
tile must also be firm against the wall to allow for the transference of
sound-based energy into the wall. Also, to allow for ease of cleaning
and maintenance of the tile, the mounting mechanism must be
simple to detach and reattach.
Two designs were created to address these requirements. First was
the formation in which a loop is connected to a wall mounted hook
(see left). Additional padding pushes against the surface and creates
tension on the hook maximising stability.
The second design was that of push tabs that the outer plastic layer
snaps onto. This uses the natural elasticity of the structure to provide
omnidirectional support.
Wave-Tile wall mounting mechanism, Lezhou Shen
S3866647 71

--- Page 72 ---
asonic
Analysis of Sound Diffusion
Using Grasshopper, team
member Carlo Holden
was able to simulate
the movement of sound
energy through a space
with and without the
Wave-Tile.
These simulations
highlight the increased
diffusion of reflected
sound particles and
overall reduced sound
energy levels
Increased numbers
of Wave-Tiles have
compounding effects on
the reduction of reflected
noise energy.
72 Ali Einoder

--- Page 73 ---
asonic
Sound diffusion simulations of Asonic Wave-Tile, Carlo Holden 2021.
S3866647 73

--- Page 74 ---
asonic
Scattering Performance of Asonic Wave-Tile, Carlo Holden 2021.
Analysis of the sound mitigating effects of the Wave-Tiles showed
significant functionality (see above). The waved surface dispersed over
half the energy of the high frequency (>4kHz). It also showed a large
amount of scattering of the lower frequencies (<400Hz).
This is of high value to the hospital environment as extraneous noise in
these frequency ranges are indicative of synthetic sound, whether it be
from motors, air conditioning or electronic beeping.
74 Ali Einoder

--- Page 75 ---
asonic
Absorption Coefficient of Asonic Wave-Tile, Carlo Holden 2021.
The absorption of sound by the tiles also proved to be of significant
value, especially when paired with the diffusing properties of the tile.
Frequencies above 1000Hz easily passed though the plastic outer shell
and was absorbed into the cellulose foam.
Noticeable however is the lack of sound reduction between 400Hz
and 1000Hz. This is actually beneficial to the environment as it
allows for the first wave of human voice to travel, allowing for easy
communication between staff.
S3866647 75

--- Page 76 ---
asonic
Summary of Outcomes
The final Wave-Tile is a functional The construction of the tile facilitates
amalgamation of biophilic imagery ease of installation and maintenance
and noise reduction mechanics. as well as allowing for the meeting
These tiles will not only improve of hygiene requirements. This will be
the acoustic environment but will elevated further by the introduction
also bring those near, closer to of zinc oxide nanoparticles or
nature in a calming and soothing oregano essential oil into the PHBV
way. The tiles will shimmer as one outer shell.
walks by as the light refracts and
The outer shell’s smooth curves will
reflects off the wave surface. This
also prevent any physical injury if
will create the illusion that the
collided with and the light weight of
static wave is in fact moving.
the structure will further increase its
The sound analyses of the Wave- safety.
Tiles suggest that their sonic
These factors add to create a
interactions are well suited to the
product that has the ability to
hospital environment, minimising
increase the overall wellbeing of all
the washing and compounding of
within the hospital, reducing stress,
unwanted noise.
anxiety and aggression.
76 Ali Einoder

--- Page 77 ---
asonic
Render of Wave-Tile AEinoder 2021
S3866647 77

--- Page 78 ---
asonic
78 Ali Einoder

--- Page 79 ---
asonic
Render of Wave-Tile in Hospital Environment AEinoder 2021
S3866647 79

--- Page 80 ---
asonic
80 Ali Einoder

--- Page 81 ---
asonic
Render of Wave-Tile in Hospital Environment AEinoder 2021
S3866647 81

--- Page 82 ---
asonic
Summary of Contributions
Render of Wave-Tile in Hospital Environment AEinoder 2021
82 Ali Einoder

--- Page 83 ---
asonic
Throughout the semester I did however
provide additional assistance and
guidance, when necessary, with both
my group members’ tasks, researching
The Asonic team comprised three
algorithmic creation processes and
members with varied backgrounds
formulating the defined variables for
and skillsets. As my background was in
sound analysis.
neuroscience and pharmacy, I began
the semester collecting, collating and
Responsibilities that I had as an
distilling the scientific research related
individual included the development
to psychology, neurology, and sociology.
of the material composition of the tile,
Using the research as well as my previous
development of our primary renders/
two semesters in MDIT, I guided my team
virtual prototypes and illustrations
through the initial project development
needed for communicating the design.
phase, focussing the group’s direction
and management of teamwork. This initial In summary, the team worked
leadership role followed throughout synergistically in a highly productive
the semester, being responsible for manner which allowed for a smooth
management of overall workflow and design process. By focusing our talents
monitoring design progression. on suitable roles, we were able to
maximise our output and achieve
Using the group’s research in fractal
greater than the sum of our parts.
imagery and biophilic design, I created a
multitude of sketches and plans for how The experience of working with
to create the initial tile. This included the the team as well as with the tutor
development of the design requirements and clients was a pleasure that
such as the complementary borders truly encouraged engagement. The
and overall composition of the tile. By motivation of the group to produce
being involved in the development of the the best possible outcome, along
core ideas, I was able to delegate tasks with feedback provided throughout
amongst the group members to facilitate the semester ensured we remained
optimum productivity, with Leo being focussed on the task at hand. From my
responsible for the generation of the perspective it was rewarding to be able
parametric algorithm and Carlo in charge to draw and build on previous academic
of the analysis of the tiles’ interactions studies and develop a product that
with sound. could positively impact the lives of
others.
S3866647 83

--- Page 84 ---
asonic
84 Ali Einoder

--- Page 85 ---
asonic
Renders of Wave-Tile in Hospital Environment AEinoder 2021
S3866647 85

--- Page 86 ---
asonic
Renders of Wave-Tile in Hospital Environment AEinoder 2021
86 Ali Einoder

--- Page 87 ---
asonic
S3866647 87

--- Page 88 ---
asonic
References Behavioural Brain Research, vol. 190, no. 1, pp. 1–13.
Darbyshire, JL, Müller-Trapet, M, Cheer, J, Fazi, FM & Young,
JD 2019, ‘Mapping sources of noise in an intensive care unit’,
Anaesthesia, vol. 74, no. 8, pp. 1018–1025.
Deguchi, T & Sato, M 1992, ‘The effect of color temperature
Abdi, DD, Monazzam, M, Taban, E, Putra, A, Golbabaei, F & of lighting sources on mental activity level.’, The Annals of
Khadem, M 2021, ‘Sound absorption performance of natural fiber physiological anthropology = Seiri Jinruigaku Kenkyūkai kaishi, vol.
composite from chrome shave and coffee silver skin’, Applied 11, no. 1.
Acoustics, vol. 182.
Domschke, K, Stevens, S, Pfleiderer, B & Gerlach, AL 2010,
Alvarsson, JJ, Wiens, S & Nilsson, ME 2010, ‘Stress recovery during ‘Interoceptive sensitivity in anxiety and anxiety disorders: An
exposure to nature sound and environmental noise’, International overview and integration of neurobiological findings’, Clinical
Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health, vol. 7, no. 3, Psychology Review, vol. 30, no. 1, pp. 1–11.
pp. 1036–1046.
Dunne, R, Desai, D & Sadiku, R 2017, ‘A Review of the Factors
Arenas, JP, Rebolledo, J, del Rey, R & Alba, J 2014, ‘Sound that Influence Sound Absorption and the Available Empirical
absorption properties of unbleached cellulose loose-fill insulation Models for Fibrous Materials’, Acoustics Australia, vol. 45, no. 2, pp.
material’, BioResources, vol. 9, no. 4, pp. 6227–6240. 453–469.
Bauer, M, Glenn, T, Monteith, S, Gottlieb, JF, Ritter, PS, Geddes, J Figueroa-Lopez, KJ, Torres-Giner, S, Enescu, D, Cabedo, L,
& Whybrow, PC 2018, ‘The potential influence of LED lighting on Cerqueira, MA, Pastrana, LM & Lagaron, JM 2020, ‘Electrospun
mental illness’, World Journal of Biological Psychiatry, vol. 19, no. 1, active biopapers of food waste derived poly(3-hydroxybutyrate-
pp. 59–73. co-3-hydroxyvalerate) with short-term and long-term
antimicrobial performance’, Nanomaterials, vol. 10, no. 3.
Bertani, DE, De Novellis, AMP, Farina, R, Latella, E, Meloni, M, Scala,
C, Valeo, L, Galeazzi, GM & Ferrari, S 2021, ‘“Shedding Light on Gomes, CC & Preto, S 2015, ‘Should the Light be Static or
Light”: A Review on the Effects on Mental Health of Exposure to Dynamic?’, Procedia Manufacturing, vol. 3, pp. 4635–4642.
Optical Radiation’, International Journal of Environmental Research
and Public Health, vol. 18, no. 4, pp. 1–16. Gritzka, S, MacIntyre, TE, Dörfel, D, Baker-Blanc, JL & Calogiuri, G
2020, ‘The Effects of Workplace Nature-Based Interventions on
Biederman, I & Vessel, E 2006, ‘Perceptual Pleasure and the Brain: the Mental Health and Well-Being of Employees: A Systematic
A novel theory explains why the brain craves information and Review’, Frontiers in Psychiatry, vol. 0, p. 323.
seeks it through the senses’, American Scientist, vol. 94, no. 3.
Gulagi, A, Bogdanov, D & Breyer, C 2017, ‘A cost optimized fully
Blume, C, Garbazza, C & Spitschan, M 2019, ‘Effects of light on sustainable power system for Southeast Asia and the Pacific Rim’,
human circadian rhythms, sleep and mood’, Somnologie, vol. 23, Energies, vol. 10, no. 5.
no. 3.
Hahad, O, Prochaska, JH, Daiber, A & Muenzel, T 2019,
Van Bogaert, P, Peremans, L, Van Heusden, D, Verspuy, M, ‘Environmental Noise-Induced Effects on Stress Hormones,
Kureckova, V, Van de Cruys, Z & Franck, E 2017, ‘Predictors of Oxidative Stress, and Vascular Dysfunction: Key Factors in the
burnout, work engagement and nurse reported job outcomes and Relationship between Cerebrocardiovascular and Psychological
quality of care: A mixed method study’, BMC Nursing, vol. 16, no. 1, Disorders’, Oxidative Medicine and Cellular Longevity, vol. 2019.
pp. 1–14.
Hunter, AM, Grese, R, Kaplan, R, Larsen, AL, Sullivan, WC
Bourke, P ‘Fractals, Chaos, Self Similarity’, viewed 27 August 2021, & Champaign, U 2015, ‘NEARBY NATURE AND MENTAL
<http://paulbourke.net/fractals/>. WELLBEING : A DESIGNER ’ S PERSPECTIVE by’,.
Cain, SW, McGlashan, EM, Vidafar, P, Mustafovska, J, Curran, SPN, Imam, SH, Glenn, GM & Chiellini, E 2012, ‘Utilization of biobased
Wang, X, Mohamed, A, Kalavally, V & Phillips, AJK 2020, ‘Evening polymers in food packaging: assessment of materials, production
home lighting adversely impacts the circadian system and sleep’, and commercialization * *Names are necessary to report factually
Scientific Reports, vol. 10, no. 1. on available data; however, the United States Department of
Agriculture (USDA) neither guarantees nor ’, in Emerging Food
Çalışkan, G, Müller, A & Albrecht, A 2020, ‘Long-term impact
Packaging Technologies, Elsevier, pp. 435–468.
of early-life stress on hippocampal plasticity: Spotlight on
astrocytes’, International Journal of Molecular Sciences, vol. 21, no. Jensen, KR, Hvidman, L, Kierkegaard, O, Gliese, H, Manser, T,
14, pp. 1–19. Uldbjerg, N & Brogaard, L 2019, ‘Noise as a risk factor in the
delivery room: A clinical study’, PLoS ONE, vol. 14, no. 8, pp. 1–10.
Clarke, S 2005, ‘Acoustic design approach for hospitals’, , vol. 112.
Van Kamp, I & Davies, H 2008, ‘Environmental noise and mental
Connellan, K, Gaardboe, M, Riggs, D, Due, C, Reinschmidt, A &
health: Five year review and future directions’,.
Mustillo, L 2013, ‘Stressed spaces: Mental health and architecture’,
Health Environments Research and Design Journal, vol. 6, no. 4, Kaplan, S 1995, ‘The restorative benefits of nature: Toward an
pp. 127–168. integrative framework’, Journal of Environmental Psychology, vol.
15, no. 3, pp. 169–182.
Cooper, R, Boyko, C & Codinhoto, Ri 2009, ‘The effect of the
physical environment on mental wellbeing’, Mental Capital and Katz, JD 2014, ‘Noise in the operating room’, Anesthesiology, vol.
Wellbeing, no. February 2014, pp. 967–1006. 121, no. 4, pp. 894–898.
Cupkova, D, Kajati, E, Mocnej, J, Papcun, P, Koziorek, J & Zolotova, Kellert, SR 2008, ‘Dimensions, Elements, and Attributes of
I 2019, ‘Intelligent human-centric lighting for mental wellbeing Biophilic Design’, in Biophilic Design: The Theory, Science and
improvement’, International Journal of Distributed Sensor Practice of Bringing Buildings to Life, pp. 3–19.
Networks, vol. 15, no. 9.
King, EW, Jr., PHK & Kellert, SR 2003, ‘Children and Nature:
Czéh, B, Perez-Cruz, C, Fuchs, E & Flügge, G 2008, ‘Chronic stress- Psychological, Sociocultural, and Evolutionary Investigations’,
induced cellular changes in the medial prefrontal cortex and their Contemporary Sociology, vol. 32, no. 6, p. 733.
potential clinical implications: Does hemisphere location matter?’,
88 Ali Einoder

--- Page 89 ---
asonic
Koruk, H & Genc, G 2018, ‘Acoustic and mechanical properties of AG, Van Den Boogaard, M & De Jager, CPC 2018, ‘Noise in the
luffa fiber-reinforced biocomposites’, in Mechanical and Physical intensive care unit and its influence on sleep quality: A multicenter
Testing of Biocomposites, Fibre-Reinforced Composites and observational study in Dutch intensive care units’, Critical Care, vol.
Hybrid Composites, Elsevier, pp. 325–341. 22, no. 1, pp. 4–11.
Li, C, Sun, C, Sun, M, Yuan, Y & Li, P 2020, ‘Effects of brightness Strube, HW 1981, ‘More on the diffraction theory of Schroeder
levels on stress recovery when viewing a virtual reality forest with diffusors’, Journal of the Acoustical Society of America, vol. 70, no.
simulated natural light’, Urban Forestry and Urban Greening, vol. 2, pp. 633–635.
56.
Takeuchi, H, Enzo, A & Minamitani, H 2001, ‘Circadian rhythm
Li, S, Bashline, L, Lei, L & Gu, Y 2014, ‘Cellulose Synthesis and Its changes in heart rate variability during chronic sound stress’,
Regulation’, The Arabidopsis Book / American Society of Plant Medical and Biological Engineering and Computing, vol. 39, no. 1.
Biologists, vol. 12, p. e0169.
Tebaldi, ML, Maia, ALC, Poletto, F, de Andrade, FV & Soares,
de Lima Andrade, E, da Cunha e Silva, DC, de Lima, EA, de Oliveira, DCF 2019, ‘Poly(-3-hydroxybutyrate-co-3-hydroxyvalerate)
RA, Zannin, PHT & Martins, ACG 2021, ‘Environmental noise in (PHBV): Current advances in synthesis methodologies, antitumor
hospitals: a systematic review’, Environmental Science and applications and biocompatibility’, Journal of Drug Delivery
Pollution Research, vol. 28, no. 16, pp. 19629–19642. Science and Technology, vol. 51, pp. 115–126.
Liu, X, Iwanaga, K, Shimomura, Y & Katsuura, T 2007, ‘Comparison ‘The Geometry of Sound Diffusion - Payette’, viewed 27 August
of stress responses between mental tasks and white noise 2021, <https://www.payette.com/research-innovation/the-
exposure’, Journal of Physiological Anthropology, vol. 26, no. 2, pp. geometry-of-sound-diffusion/>.
165–171.
Thimmegowda, GG, Mullen, S, Sottilare, K, Sharma, A, Mohanta,
Mcleod, RWJ, Myint-Wilks, L, Davies, SE & Elhassan, HA 2021, ‘The SS, Brockmann, A, Dhandapany, PS & Olsson, SB 2020, ‘A field-
impact of noise in the operating theatre: A review of the evidence’, based quantitative analysis of sublethal effects of air pollution on
Annals of the Royal College of Surgeons of England, vol. 103, no. 2, pollinators’, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of
pp. 83–87. the United States of America, vol. 117, no. 34, pp. 20653–20661.
Owens, AP, Low, DA, Iodice, V, Mathias, CJ & Critchley, HD 2016, Thoma, MV, Mewes, R & Nater, UM 2018, ‘Preliminary evidence:
‘Emotion and the autonomic nervous system-a two-way street: The stress-reducing effect of listening to water sounds depends
Insights from affective, autonomic and dissociative disorders’, on somatic complaints’, Medicine (United States), vol. 97, no. 8.
in The Curated Reference Collection in Neuroscience and
Biobehavioral Psychology, Elsevier Science Ltd. Totaforti, S 2018, ‘Applying the benefits of biophilic theory to
hospital design’, City, Territory and Architecture, vol. 5, no. 1, pp.
Pandey, SP, Shukla, T, Dhote, VK, Mishra, DK, Maheshwari, R & 1–9.
Tekade, RK 2018, ‘Use of polymers in controlled release of active
agents’, in Basic Fundamentals of Drug Delivery, Elsevier, pp. Vasile, C 2020, ‘Environmentally Degradable Materials based
113–172. on Multicomponent Polymeric Systems: Biocomposites and
Bioblends’, in Environmentally Degradable Materials based on
Przyborowski, Ł, Loboda, AM & Bialik, RJ 2018, ‘Experimental Multicomponent Polymeric Systems, Brill, pp. 518–535.
investigations of interactions between sand wave movements,
flow structure, and individual aquatic plants in natural rivers: A Wells, NM & Evans, GW 2003, ‘Nearby Nature: A Buffer of Life
case study of Potamogeton Pectinatus L.’, Water (Switzerland), vol. Stress Among Rural Children’, Environment and Behavior, vol. 35,
10, no. 9, pp. 1–18. no. 3, pp. 311–330.
Rai, R, Keshavarz, T, Roether, JA, Boccaccini, AR & Roy, I 2011, WHO 1999, ‘4 . Guideline Values’, Guidelines for Community Noise,
‘Medium chain length polyhydroxyalkanoates, promising new pp. 55–65.
biomedical materials for the future’, Materials Science and
Engineering R: Reports, vol. 72, no. 3, pp. 29–47. Williams, F 2017, ‘Feel-good Fractals: From Ocean Waves to
Jackson Pollock’s Art | Scribd’, Aeon.
Rudnik, E 2019, Compostable polymer materials, Elsevier.
Yang, S, Qiu, Y & He, J 2021, ‘Meta-analysis of the impact of
Salingaros, NA 2012, ‘Fractal Art and Architecture Reduce role stress on the turnover intention of medical staff in tertiary
Physiological Stress’, Journal of Biourbanism, vol. 2, pp. 11–28. hospitals’, Annals of Palliative Medicine, vol. 10, no. 1, pp. 469–478.
Schleip, R & Jäger, H 2012, ‘Interoception’, Fascia: The Tensional Yerbury, RM & Lukey, SJ 2021, ‘Human–animal interactions:
Network of the Human Body, pp. 89–94. Expressions of wellbeing through a “nature language”’, Animals,
vol. 11, no. 4.
Schmidt, N, Gerber, SM, Zante, B, Gawliczek, T, Chesham, A,
Gutbrod, K, Müri, RM, Nef, T, Schefold, JC & Jeitziner, M-M 2020, Zhang, T, Mahgsoudy-Louyeh, S, Tittmann, B & Cosgrove, DJ 2014,
‘Effects of intensive care unit ambient sounds on healthcare ‘Visualization of the nanoscale pattern of recently-deposited
professionals: results of an online survey and noise exposure in an cellulose microfibrils and matrix materials in never-dried primary
experimental setting’, Intensive Care Medicine Experimental, vol. walls of the onion epidermis’, Cellulose, vol. 21, no. 2, pp. 853–862.
8, no. 1.
Zhou, T, Wu, Y, Meng, Q & Kang, J 2020, ‘Influence of the Acoustic
Schroeder, MR 1979, ‘Binaural dissimilarity and optimum ceilings Environment in Hospital Wards on Patient Physiological and
for concert halls: More lateral sound diffusion’, Journal of the Psychological Indices’, Frontiers in Psychology, vol. 0, p. 1600.
Acoustical Society of America, vol. 65, no. 4, pp. 958–963.
Zoontjens, L & Cockings, T 2014, ‘Review of design approaches
Scopelliti, M, Carrus, G & Bonaiuto, M 2019, ‘Is it Really Nature That to acoustics in Australian hospitals’, INTERNOISE 2014 - 43rd
Restores People? A Comparison With Historical Sites With High International Congress on Noise Control Engineering: Improving
Restorative Potential’, Frontiers in Psychology, vol. 0, no. JAN, p. the World Through Noise Control, pp. 1–11.
2742.
Simons, KS, Verweij, E, Lemmens, PMC, Jelfs, S, Park, M, Spronk,
PE, Sonneveld, JPC, Feijen, HM, Van Der Steen, MS, Kohlrausch,
S3866647 89

--- Page 90 ---
asonic
90 Ali Einoder