asonic
Diffusion
A key and important characteristic of picture of normal shape). These
the sound environment of a space is tilings of small square pyramids
the diffusion of sound. The diffusion break apart the soundwaves as the
is the way in which the sound sound hits the four presented faces
reflects off surfaces and disperses of each pyramid. An alternate style
(‘The Geometry of Sound Diffusion - of diffuser as such as maximum
Payette’ n.d.). length sequence (MLS) diffuser is
composed of strips with two different
Mitigation of ambient noise
depths. These created grooves trap
requires that the diffusion of sound
sound and cause it to reflect multiple
maximises the reduction of energy.
times, losing much of its energy. The
This can be achieved by utilising
variation in groove width preferences
complex shaped structures that
different frequency ranges. A high
disperse the sound in a variety of
variety of groove width thus has a
patterns that cause the sound wave
higher range of ability regarding
to lose the unity of their alignment
soundwave diffusion (Strube 1981).
and direction. This mechanism
is optimised in the conventional A third common type of sound
implementation of sound diffusing diffuser is the previously mentioned
objects such as Quadratic Residue QRD. This sound diffusing structure
Diffusers (QRD) which shift the features a curved surface which
timing/phase of the reflected sound alters the timing and phase
(Schroeder 1979). alignment of the sounds that hit it.
With the curved surface preventing
These sound diffusers can be
the parallel and reinforced
constructed into many different
soundwaves from reflecting in the
shapes, from many different
same arrangement that they were
materials and in many different sizes.
initially traveling in (Schroeder 1979).
As the sound hits a diffuser, some
The size of the diffusing surface in
of the sound is reflected into the
the x and y dimensions only effect
environment. These soundwaves
the area that the sound is mitigated.
will reflect at angles and directions
However, the size of the surface in
related to the angle that they hit the
the z dimension (how far it protrudes
diffuser and the angle of the surface
into the space) can alter the sound
that they hit. By alternating the angle
diffusion properties dramatically.
of the diffusing surface in patterns
This is co-dependent on the shape
such as waves or spikes, the once
and structure of the surface. High
parallel waves are now split into
variance in the surface protrusion
many different directions. This lack of
can lead to a higher variation in
unity in the array of wave directions
the angles of reflectance, as well
causes the waves to lose energy and
as increase the probability of the
to become asynchronous when they
soundwaves being “trapped” on
hit an observer’s ears (Strube 1981).
the surface and reflecting/diffusing
There are several varying trends with multiple times. This array thus results
the shape of the diffusing surface. in a higher diffusion of sound and a
Most common are variations in a higher reduction of ambient noise.
spiked/triangular surface [insert
36 Ali Einoder