asonic
Visual transparency of the electrospun biopapers
of PHBV:
(a) NeatPHBV,
(b) PHBV +10wt% OEO,
(c) PHBV +3%wt% ZnONPs,
(d) PHBV + 7.5wt% OEO +0.75wt% ZnONPs,
(e) PHBV +5wt% OEO +1.5wt% ZnONPs,
(f) PHBV + 2.5wt% OEO + 2.25wt% ZnONPs
(Figueroa-Lopez et al. 2020).
The created material is relatively rigid and thermally stable in comparison to
many PHA bioplastics especially if increasing the side group length of the HV
units on the PHBV molecules (Tebaldi et al. 2019).
Blending of other polymers is common in the manufacturing process of
PHBV. Materials blended with this bioplastic vary from polymers such as
polylactic acid or natural fibres such as bamboo. This blending improves the
physicochemical properties of the structure and can be utilised to create
tailored products suitable to their end purpose (Figueroa-Lopez et al. 2020.
A novel means of creating a transparent composition of PHBV is the
electrospinning of fibre-based films of PHBV which were derived from
the fermentation of fruit waste. As modifiers of this compound, zinc-oxide
nanoparticles (ZnONPs) and oregano essential oil (OEO) were added. These
two products were added to the polymer before the electrospinning process.
This addition provides antimicrobial properties to the blend and greatly
improve the crystallinity and thus transparency. A paper thin composition of the
final compound has been shown to resist over 48 days of inundation of both
Escherichia coli and Staphylococcus Aureus (Figueroa-Lopez et al. 2020.
Table 2- Mechanical properties of the electrospun biopapers of PHBV containing OEO and
ZnONP in terms of tensile modulus (E), tensile strength at yield (σ ) elongation at break (ε )
γ b
and toughness (Figueroa-Lopez et al. 2020).
Presence of ZnONPs has been shown to increase the opaqueness of the PHBV
blend when compared to non-blended or OEO blends. 10 wt% OEO in opposition,
improved the transparency of the biopolymer. The blends also show increases in
the toughness (mJ/mm3) with both ZnONP and OEO increasing the toughness of
the compound dramatically, OEO especially so (Figueroa-Lopez et al. 2020.
S3866647 67