asonic
Throughout the semester I did however
provide additional assistance and
guidance, when necessary, with both
my group members’ tasks, researching
The Asonic team comprised three
algorithmic creation processes and
members with varied backgrounds
formulating the defined variables for
and skillsets. As my background was in
sound analysis.
neuroscience and pharmacy, I began
the semester collecting, collating and
Responsibilities that I had as an
distilling the scientific research related
individual included the development
to psychology, neurology, and sociology.
of the material composition of the tile,
Using the research as well as my previous
development of our primary renders/
two semesters in MDIT, I guided my team
virtual prototypes and illustrations
through the initial project development
needed for communicating the design.
phase, focussing the group’s direction
and management of teamwork. This initial In summary, the team worked
leadership role followed throughout synergistically in a highly productive
the semester, being responsible for manner which allowed for a smooth
management of overall workflow and design process. By focusing our talents
monitoring design progression. on suitable roles, we were able to
maximise our output and achieve
Using the group’s research in fractal
greater than the sum of our parts.
imagery and biophilic design, I created a
multitude of sketches and plans for how The experience of working with
to create the initial tile. This included the the team as well as with the tutor
development of the design requirements and clients was a pleasure that
such as the complementary borders truly encouraged engagement. The
and overall composition of the tile. By motivation of the group to produce
being involved in the development of the the best possible outcome, along
core ideas, I was able to delegate tasks with feedback provided throughout
amongst the group members to facilitate the semester ensured we remained
optimum productivity, with Leo being focussed on the task at hand. From my
responsible for the generation of the perspective it was rewarding to be able
parametric algorithm and Carlo in charge to draw and build on previous academic
of the analysis of the tiles’ interactions studies and develop a product that
with sound. could positively impact the lives of
others.
S3866647 83