--- Page 1 ---
BELLOWING BOY
Designed and finished
by Ali Einoder - 2020

--- Page 2 ---


--- Page 3 ---
TT HH EE II DD EE AA
This object is the speaker. An object
that has become an almost necessity
in modern life and has replaced a func-
Most of the objects we use in every tion that was once an intrinsic human
day life are underwhelming. Simple service.
shapes, solid colours, forgettable.
Why not return to listening to stories
The items we have in our houses could and songs and lectures from the mouth
look like a multitude of different of an abstract humanoid.
things like lions or elephants or trees Why not stare into his perfectly circu-
or planets or spaceships or anything lar mouth and exotropic eyes?
really but most people instead settle
for things that at a minimum look And while we are getting funky, we
95% like every other object of that might as well Jackson Pollock him in
function. Why is that? paint, or graffiti him in Keith Haring
doodles. This is an object that isn’t
Is is that we are afraid of the stim- planning to blend in like your nervous
ulation? Or maybe we are just afraid friend but is instead demanding atten-
of taking the chance to see the world tion.
as a child would, with the surreal
“what-if” leaps of imagination and the You want every guest to be fixated,
embracement of pareidolia. shocked, surprised and utterly exhil-
arated at the beautiful absurdity of
Maybe it is too drastic a leap to this seemingly grotesque yet tanta-
change our environment into one in the lizing figure. This boy crouching like
vein of The Flintstones or Beauty and the Sphinx, propelling whatever track
the Beast but it should be possible or podcast you have been throttling
to sneak a little bit of that enjoy- lately right into the faces of its
ment into our lives. audience.
A simple start is an object that is This will be the Yelling Boy, the
brought in and out of our attention boy who dares to change the world,
by nature of it’s function. An item bringing back blatant aestheticism and
that is easy to anthropomorphize and reference for the mere sake of it. A
one that can indulge this experiment functional art-piece that can’t help
without negating its usefulness. but stimulate you.

--- Page 4 ---


--- Page 5 ---
TTHHEE DDEESSIIGGNN
To create a functional and heavily To be affordable and easy to print, the
anthropomorphic speaker, several design needed to fit within an 8L cube,
conditions need to be met for it to with no dimension greater than 20cm.
be considered a success. Firstly, it It also needs to have the smallest
must resemble a humanoid creature, weight possible without compromising
secondly it needs to have uncompro- any of the previously stated require-
mised audio quality and projection, ments.
thirdly it needs to be effortlessly
interacted with. To achieve this, the creature was to be
mostly hollow, with walls of approxi-
An additional condition needs to be mately 3mm thick. The more spherical
met considering I - the creator, main body seemed particularly useful as
need to make a prototype, This it was the most efficient use of space.
condition is that it is plausible to This shape also allows for one other
make using resources and finances function that - especially for prototyp-
I am easily able to access. These ing and development - is needed: The
resources include a 3D printing ability to open the device easily and
facility, approximately 200 dollars, access the inside. By having a large
some paint I found in a parking lot, central body, a subsection of it can be
an audio driver able to be bought removed to show all extra components
online and shipped within a week and inside such as the circuitry and the
the circuitry of a Google Home Mini audio driver.
I dissected out of curiosity.
The last factor in the initial design
The basics of the design were was the size of the audio driver and
almost intuitive, instantaneously circuitry that will be housed within. A
coming to me as I decided on the driver that I have been needing to test
theme. The creature speaker was to out was the Dayton Audio ps95 which
bellow the sound out of its mouth is a 3-1/2" mid range driver, perfect
and it was to either stand on its for this project. The circuitry was, as
feet or crouch. stated previously, that of a Google
home Mini.

--- Page 6 ---
1
N
O
I
S
R
E
V
L
E
D
O
M

--- Page 7 ---
AA CCTT UU AA LLLLYY MM AA KKII NN GG II TT //
JJ AA MM MM II NN GG
The first step in the 3D design was
to map out the mounting of the audio
driver (see image right), as it is an
independent variable that the other
structures must be designed around.
The second step was to create a
spherical chamber around the driver
to aid acoustics.
The first version of the speaker
(see images right) was created by
adding the aesthetic features onto
the outside of the central sphere.
Muscular legs were added to the
back and abstract skinny legs were
attached to the front. Wings were
added to the back both to visually
balance the weight and also to make
this creature resemble some sort of
of the requirements, failed one quite vital
abstract cherub. The features were
necessity; the size was far too large. The
created cartoonishly and playfully,
inefficient adding of solid bodies to the out-
with the inclusion of solid pectoral
side of the chamber created a large addition
muscles and 6-pack as well as small
in weight which in turn lead to the cost of
genitals reminiscent of Romantic and
printing becoming far too high. Also, the
Classical sculpture.
size of this device was nearing 30cm in each
As to allow airflow for the audio
dimension which is way too big.
driver, an outlet was created in the
rectum of the creature which also
Thus a new design was needed. This new
aids in the immature humour of its
design was to be more compact, with the
form.
aesthetic features being more integrated.
This design, though meeting many
1
N
O
I
S
R
E
V
L
E
D
O
M
DAYTON AUDIO PS95
© 2019 Dayton Audio. All Rights Reserved.

--- Page 8 ---
179.15
56.222
81.371
7.491
90
89
93.461
09
R
3
7
.5
5
.
9
R
179.15
147.8
100.78
99.38
49.39
R25
179.15
23.01
20.74 2
9
0.
2
R
R2
R1.5
R1.5
52
38.142
14.822
199.51
86.511
29.36
174.67
136.57
41.34
161.16
174.22
89
148.36
153.33
212.64
11.891 45.781
72.161
160.57
78.65
34.45
39.13
61.55
29.36
8.37
37.67
68.97
REVISED MODEL

--- Page 9 ---
turn your head

--- Page 10 ---
This new design maintained the inner
chamber being mostly spherical, how-
ever the top half was now a bubbly
afro instead of solid spiky hair and
wings. Whilst still being aesthetically
grounded it is able to double as a
removable lid. The legs were made
smaller than that of the previous
design but also staying relatively
in proportion to the new form. The
stance is that of a frog, with the
mouth facing the flies. The eyes
staying exotropic and upwards facing
to accentuate the playful absurdity

--- Page 11 ---
of the design. To minimise cost,
the central body has thin walls
and detaches from the limbs and
hair and is able to be split in
two. This splitting of components
greatly reduces the support
structures needed during the
printing process and thus reduces
the cost dramatically.
The overall size of this design
was reduced to a fraction of the
previous with greater efficiency of
the structures and a more unified
form.

--- Page 12 ---
Removing the hair exposes the degrees to ensure stability, reliability
mounting area for the Google Home and the extra ability to hold the rest of
Mini circuitry (see above) and the the construction in place. This function
Dayton Audio ps95 (see below). The is a key example of the multifaceted
hair itself contains finger like inte- functioning of the components. The hair
grated dowls that insert themselves in total, works as a buttress for the
into the main body. This holds itself face, helping to support the weight of
in place at an angle of forty five the audio driver whilst in addition aiding

--- Page 13 ---
the acoustic qualities of the speaker supportive filament needed. This compo-
and providing access to the internals. nent, as well as the limbs, are attached
with some super heavy duty smelly quick
The face of the Bellowing Boy also drying super glue. To aid the attachment,
removes (see bellow). This is a one time the joints were given teeth and slots,
function merely implemented to aid the increasing the total surface area of the
printing process and greatly reducing connection and providing protection from
cost by decreasing the total amount of greater angular stress.

--- Page 14 ---
COMPONENTS POST-PRINT

--- Page 15 ---
PPOOSSTT--PPRRIINNTT
PPRROOCCEESSSSIINNGG
With the assembly printed and delivered, the
most tedious process begins. Each part needs
to be sanded, the wrinkles and contours of
the prints must be smoothed into a slippery
surface. Each of the joining components
need special care to connect to their full
extent. The components need to be tested
and adjusted, in this case using a file, brute
force and fire. Heating the plastic allows for
speedy adjustment of components that other-
wise would be impossible to reform.
The parts sans the hair were glued together
using super glue and high heat while being
pressed together with force.
After joining, the components were let to rest
for several hours so I could lie down and
watch some Netflix.

--- Page 16 ---


--- Page 17 ---
TT HH EE PP AA II NN TT II NN GG
The painting was a key component to the overall design as
I find an incessant need to cover my creations in paint. This,
paired with a liking of bold primaries and rough abstract com-
position leads to a personalisation and giving of character to
the product.
The reclaimed, post-trash paints demanded to be poured and
dripped with a Pollock spirit, covering the Bellowing Boy like
multicoloured pigeon poop in a surreal Italian Piazza. This
aggressive painting serves as a practical first composition as
it allows for further mutations through graffiti and wear and
tear.
An additional, hidden benefit of the heavy paint is that it fur-
ther covers the lumpy, bumpy washing-board curves left by the
3D printer as well; as the burnt and glued joints.
The final step of the painting required burning the paint, forc-
ing it to bubble and swell. This causes the different colours to
scatter throughout each other without mixing, it also creates
a weathering, stripping the product of its sterile newness and
adding depth to the colours.
TTTTTT HHHHHH EEEEEE PPPPPP AAAAAA IIIIII NNNNNN TTTTTT IIIIII NNNNNN GGGGGG

--- Page 18 ---


--- Page 19 ---
TTHHEE RREESSUULLTT
Due to the precision of measurement in the 3D modeling
process as well as the heavy effort in post-processing
and adjustment, the parts all fit together effortlessly.
The circuit board can attach to the mounting holes of
the base of the inside. The hair is easily removed and
connected whilst still holding tightly. The Audio Driver
mounts perfectly and tightly, not moving a micrometer
even when thumping hard bass.
The weight is high enough to suggest quality but it is
light enough to easily move around. The Google Home
Mini brain is able to be communicated with, even with its
encapsulation and its close proximity to the speaker. Its
cord effortlessly passes through the rectum and can be
attached and reattached if the device is opened.
In time when the paint dries completely, additional
detailing and graffiti will be applied. The circuitry may
be replaced with a more conventional Bluetooth amplifier.
But for the time being the Bellowing Boy crouches proud.
Gleefully scaring unsuspecting interlopers and small dogs
that come sniffing.

--- Page 20 ---
