TT HH EE II DD EE AA
This object is the speaker. An object
that has become an almost necessity
in modern life and has replaced a func-
Most of the objects we use in every tion that was once an intrinsic human
day life are underwhelming. Simple service.
shapes, solid colours, forgettable.
Why not return to listening to stories
The items we have in our houses could and songs and lectures from the mouth
look like a multitude of different of an abstract humanoid.
things like lions or elephants or trees Why not stare into his perfectly circu-
or planets or spaceships or anything lar mouth and exotropic eyes?
really but most people instead settle
for things that at a minimum look And while we are getting funky, we
95% like every other object of that might as well Jackson Pollock him in
function. Why is that? paint, or graffiti him in Keith Haring
doodles. This is an object that isn’t
Is is that we are afraid of the stim- planning to blend in like your nervous
ulation? Or maybe we are just afraid friend but is instead demanding atten-
of taking the chance to see the world tion.
as a child would, with the surreal
“what-if” leaps of imagination and the You want every guest to be fixated,
embracement of pareidolia. shocked, surprised and utterly exhil-
arated at the beautiful absurdity of
Maybe it is too drastic a leap to this seemingly grotesque yet tanta-
change our environment into one in the lizing figure. This boy crouching like
vein of The Flintstones or Beauty and the Sphinx, propelling whatever track
the Beast but it should be possible or podcast you have been throttling
to sneak a little bit of that enjoy- lately right into the faces of its
ment into our lives. audience.
A simple start is an object that is This will be the Yelling Boy, the
brought in and out of our attention boy who dares to change the world,
by nature of it’s function. An item bringing back blatant aestheticism and
that is easy to anthropomorphize and reference for the mere sake of it. A
one that can indulge this experiment functional art-piece that can’t help
without negating its usefulness. but stimulate you.