TTHHEE DDEESSIIGGNN
To create a functional and heavily To be affordable and easy to print, the
anthropomorphic speaker, several design needed to fit within an 8L cube,
conditions need to be met for it to with no dimension greater than 20cm.
be considered a success. Firstly, it It also needs to have the smallest
must resemble a humanoid creature, weight possible without compromising
secondly it needs to have uncompro- any of the previously stated require-
mised audio quality and projection, ments.
thirdly it needs to be effortlessly
interacted with. To achieve this, the creature was to be
mostly hollow, with walls of approxi-
An additional condition needs to be mately 3mm thick. The more spherical
met considering I - the creator, main body seemed particularly useful as
need to make a prototype, This it was the most efficient use of space.
condition is that it is plausible to This shape also allows for one other
make using resources and finances function that - especially for prototyp-
I am easily able to access. These ing and development - is needed: The
resources include a 3D printing ability to open the device easily and
facility, approximately 200 dollars, access the inside. By having a large
some paint I found in a parking lot, central body, a subsection of it can be
an audio driver able to be bought removed to show all extra components
online and shipped within a week and inside such as the circuitry and the
the circuitry of a Google Home Mini audio driver.
I dissected out of curiosity.
The last factor in the initial design
The basics of the design were was the size of the audio driver and
almost intuitive, instantaneously circuitry that will be housed within. A
coming to me as I decided on the driver that I have been needing to test
theme. The creature speaker was to out was the Dayton Audio ps95 which
bellow the sound out of its mouth is a 3-1/2" mid range driver, perfect
and it was to either stand on its for this project. The circuitry was, as
feet or crouch. stated previously, that of a Google
home Mini.